# [EconTalk] Tim Ferriss on Tim Ferriss (and much much more)

**Source**: https://www.econtalk.org/tim-ferriss-on-tim-ferriss-and-much-much-more/
**Atlas ID**: 223241
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.138561

---

Tim Ferriss on Tim Ferriss (and much much more) - Econlib Liberty Fund Network Econlib Liberty Fund OLL Adam Smith Works Law & Liberty EconLog Blog Browse by Author Browse by Topic Browse by Date Search EconLog RSS Subscribe EconTalk Latest Episodes Browse by Date Browse by Guest Browse by Category Browse Extras Search EconTalk RSS Feeds Articles Latest Articles Liberty Classics Browse by Author Browse by Date Search Articles Books Books Bios Books by Date Books by Author Search Books Encyclopedia Index Browse by Author Browse by Title Biographies Search Encyclopedia Guides Index #ECONLIBREADS College Topics High School Topics Subscribe to QuickPicks Search Guides Videos Index Search Videos Liberty Fund Network Econlib OLL Adam Smith Works Library of Law & Liberty Home / Tim Ferriss on Tim Ferriss (and much much more) Aug 18 2025 Cold plunges. Exogenous ketones. Pu-erh tea--but hold the breakfast: it's all par for the morning routine, at least if you're entrepreneur, self-experimenter, and king of the lifehacks, Tim Ferriss . From how he manages the challenges of his celebrity to how he manages to stay in great shape; how he does--and when he doesn't--harness the power of AI; and how he preps for a podcast designed to help us live richer, fuller, and healthier lives, the bestselling 4-Hour Workweek author and billion-downloads podcaster speaks with EconTalk's Russ Roberts about what it's really like to be him, and more. LISTEN NOW: Comment ● READ TRANSCRIPT ● DELVE DEEPER 6 DOWNLOAD RELATED EPISODE Tyler Cowen on Talent How do you hone your craft on an everyday basis? It could be writing, meeting with experts, even listening to podcasts, just so long, argues economist and blogger Tyler Cowen, as it makes you better at what you already do.... EXPLORE MORE Related EPISODE Michael Pollan on Psychedelic Drugs and How to Change Your Mind Journalist and author Michael Pollan talks about his book, How to Change Your Mind, with EconTalk host Russ Roberts. Pollan chronicles the history of the use of psychedelic drugs, particularly LSD and psilocybin, to treat addiction, depression and anxiety. He... EXPLORE MORE Browse our archive of 800+ episodes containing over ten years of podcasts Explore audio transcript, further reading that will
                    help you delve deeper into this week’s episode, and
                    vigorous conversations in the form of our comments
                    section below. READER COMMENTS READ COMMENT POLICY Shalom Freedman Aug 18 2025 at 9:44am Thanks to Russ for introducing me to Tim Ferriss and his work. I had never heard of him. But there is a lot of people I have never heard of as there are now more than eight billion two -hundred million of us on the planet, and there have been according to the experts admittedly wild guess estimates one-hundred billion humans who have lived on the earth. I perhaps never heard of him also because I am largely not interested in most of the things he is interested in. I have not had the opportunity to wonder whether I should be happy or dismayed at being recognized in an airport at the ends of the earth Nor, have I ever taken much interest in that which I have always thought of as mumbo-jumbo- parapsychology I certainly know nothing about inventing new companies, doing brilliant investing, reaching a billion in podcasting. I do however share an interest in knowing how to live a healthier and enjoyable life. Nothing however spoken about in this conversation including the whole business of variable heart rate made much sense to me. Matt Aug 18 2025 at 2:44pm Russ! You have great taste in Scotch. Adbeg Oogie is the best Scotch I’ve ever owned. And the Lagavulin’s Offerman Rum Cask is one I’d like to have in my permanent collection. Have you ever tried Benriach the Smoky 12? I know it isn’t as interesting or intense, but something about it pushes every one of my buttons (in a good way!) unlike anything else. Take care. Krishnan Chittur Aug 19 2025 at 3:34pm Fascinating – podcasts can be like excellent review papers – the author(s) and the guests are both prepared and they chat about many things from which one learns by listening! … this was excellent – thanks (Did not know Tim had interviewed Russ (Aug 4, 2022) – prompted me to listen to that one – some good insights into life, living …) Doug Iliff, MD Aug 19 2025 at 8:12pm This was a delightful interview from my perspective as a family physician— still learning after 50 years in the profession.  Like Tim, I have been piqued by my low heart rate variability— despite being in excellent physical condition at age 76.  Unlike Tim, I’m not losing any sleep over it, although if he figures out what to do (should it turn out to be of more than ephemeral significance), I’ll consider the response.  And I especially enjoy someone who considers an N of 1 to be worth considering; research, I was once taught, is just organized curiosity, and that’s where advances begin. On the other hand: for listeners who are challenged or confused by the significance of cold plunges or fancy teas, my own perspective leans toward the continuously tried and true. Eat breakfast like a king, and dinner like a pauper.  Don’t get fat.  Do resistance exercises at least twice a week, and 75 minutes of vigorous, or 150 minutes of hearty, exercise every week.  You can’t do better than the old Ken Cooper books, if you can find them: 30 aerobics points per week is still the gold standard.  Get at least 7 hours of sleep a night, at least one dog, and a habit of regular reading for pleasure.  Work at a job which you find interesting and benefits society.  Cultivate friends, and a relationship with God. After that, if there is time, stock up on all the herbals and supplements you like.  You’ll be seeking the last 2% of benefit, and good luck to you. Richard Orchard Aug 21 2025 at 5:52pm Thanks for the interview Russ. Tim Ferris seems a bit OCD. I’m an 83 y/0 retired ophthalmologist who still plays golf. I have always considered breakfast the most important meal of the day which has included one egg. My mantra all these years has been: “Moderation in everything” and that has worked for me. Also Lipton or Twinings tea is pretty good. Sunday morning in church is good respite from the pressures of weekday life and helps me think beyond self interests. Kevin Ryan Aug 22 2025 at 4:41am Hope it’s ok not to have liked this one.  2 podcasters talking to each other. After 20 mins or so I decided the rest of my 2 hours better spent on listening to more of the For Whom The Bell Tolls audiobook.  (Which I have now finished, and am seriously pumped for the episode) Comments are closed. Enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: DELVE DEEPER Watch this podcast episode on YouTube: Tim Ferriss on Tim Ferriss (and much much more) . Live-recorded audio and video. This week's guest: Tim Ferriss's Home page The Tim Ferriss Show. Podcast. The Saisei Foundation . This week's focus: "11 Reasons Not to Become Famous (or 'A Few Lessons Learned Since 2007')," by Tim Ferriss. Tim Ferriss's blog, Feb. 2, 2020. Additional ideas and people mentioned in this podcast episode: The 4-Hour Workweek: Escape 9-5, Live Anywhere, and Join the New Rich, by Tim Ferriss at Amazon.com books. * Tribe of Mentors: Short Life Advice from the Best in the World, by Tim Ferriss at Amazon.com. * Tools of Titans: The Tactics, Routines, and Habits of Billionaires, Icons, and World-Class Performers, by Tim Ferriss at Amazon.com. * The Pacific and Other Stories, by Mark Helprin at Amazon.com. * Tim Ferriss interviews Russ Roberts, 2022: "Russ Roberts on Lessons from F.A. Hayek and Nassim Taleb, Decision-Making Insights from Charles Darwin, The Dangers of Scientism, Wild Problems in Life and the Decisions That Define Us, Learnings from the Talmud, The Role of Prayer, and The Journey to Transcendence (#613)." Tim Ferriss' Podcast, Aug. 4, 2022. Russ Roberts with Tim Ferriss on Wild Problems , by Alice Temnick. EconTalk Extra. More Tim Ferriss podcast episodes: "The Man Who Studied 1,000 Deaths to Learn How to Live (#153)." Guest BJ Miller. Tim Ferriss' Podcast, Apr. 14, 2016. "Jamie Foxx on Workout Routines, Success Habits, and Untold Hollywood Stories (#124)." Tim Ferriss' Podcast, Dec. 6, 2015. "Hugh Jackman on Best Decisions, Daily Routines, The 85% Rule, Favorite Exercises, Mind Training, and Much More (#444)." Tim Ferriss' Podcast, June 26, 2020. Two Michael Pollan interviews: Tim Ferriss, Russ Roberts "The Tim Ferriss Show Transcripts: Michael Pollan--This Is Your Mind on Plants (#520)." Tim Ferriss' Podcast, Jun. 30, 2021. Michael Pollan on Psychedelic Drugs and How to Change Your Mind . EconTalk, Jun. 25, 2018. A few more readings and background resources: "The 3 FASTEST Ways to Achieve Your Breakthrough," by Tony Robbins. YouTube Video. Consensus . Research-oriented, AI-based app. Vilfredo Pareto. Biography. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics . Coyote Card Game . The Anxious Generation: How the Great Rewiring of Childhood Is Causing an Epidemic of Mental Illness, by Jonathan Haidt at Amazon.com. * A few discussions about Peter Thiel Peter Thiel's pivot, by Scott Sumner. Econlog, July 30, 2019. Ryan Holiday on Conspiracy, Gawker, and the Hulk Hogan Trial . Includes discussion of Peter Thiel. EconTalk. A few more EconTalk podcast episodes: Tyler Cowen on Talent . EconTalk. Angela Duckworth on Grit . EconTalk. EconTalk #1000 (with Russ Roberts) . EconTalk. Jonathan Haidt on the Righteous Mind . EconTalk. A.J. Jacobs on Solving Life's Puzzles . Some discussions of chess. EconTalk. Alan Lightman on Science, Spirituality, and Searching for Stars on an Island in Maine . Some discussions of transcendence. EconTalk. More related EconTalk podcast episodes, by Category: Industry Interviews: Individuals at Work The Media, Journalism Entrepreneurship Turned Tables: Russ Gets Interviewed ALL ECONTALK CATEGORIES * As an Amazon Associate, Econlib earns from qualifying purchases. AUDIO TRANSCRIPT Time Podcast Episode Highlights 0:37 Intro. [Recording date: July 23, 2025.] Russ Roberts: Today is July 23rd, 2025, and my guest is author, podcaster, life-hacker extraordinaire, Tim Ferriss. His podcast, The Tim Ferriss Show , has over 1 billion--with a B, billion--downloads since he began in 2014. His books, which include The Four-Hour Workweek , Tribe of Mentors , and Tools of Titans , have sold millions of copies. In 2018, he founded the Saisei Foundation to fund unorthodox research, explore treating conditions that are widely considered untreatable, and challenge existing frameworks and paradigms within science and medicine. Tim, welcome to EconTalk. Tim Ferriss: Thanks for having me. Great to see you. 1:20 Russ Roberts: Now, in introducing, I called you an author, and a podcaster, and a life hacker--I'm sure I could have added some things to that list. And they're all true. But what you really are is a phenomenon. You're an explorer of the world, an explorer of yourself, and you took that exploration, put it in the public eye via the Internet, and became really an extraordinary brand, and you're good at every piece of that--the exploration, the marketing. How'd that happen? Was that a plan, or did you just sort of stumble onto it? Tim Ferriss: I think it was a lot of serendipity, somewhat engineered in a positive sense because it conforms with my personality fundamentally. But a lot of it started--and maybe this is going back too far--but I had a lot of health problems as a kid. And, some of those were a consequence of being born premature, and I had a lot of issues with thermoregulation, and so on. But, the only sport that I could participate in really, effectively ,was wrestling. My mom put me into kiddie wrestling because the puny kids could go against the other puny kids. And I had a lot of constraints. I would overheat quickly, and effectively had to experiment and work around a lot of limitations in sports. So, the self-experimentation started with that, and later extended to other things. And then it just became a habit. And, when the first book was a few months out from launch, there were these things you might remember that were quite big at the time, called blogs. And, I just decided to take my personal experimentation and share it publicly, with the hypothesis that that might spread. And, lo and behold, had a few friends, one of whom ran something called Digg.com, which was gigantic. It was the front page of the Internet in a sense, somewhat akin to Reddit back in the day. And, I realized that certain types of experimentation resonated. So I took what I was already doing, amplified the volume on that, and it continued to resonate--continued to resonate in different subject matter from The Four-Hour Workweek with business and entrepreneurship to The Four-Hour Body with physical performance, and interviewing coaches, running a lot of trials on myself, to cooking, and to everything else that I did afterwards. So, that has continued, and I'm sure you might feel similar, and I said this before recording, but congrats on a thousand shows--that is one heck of a milestone--that if I weren't recording the podcast, I would be having a lot of those conversations anyway. And, the same is true of the experiments. If I weren't sharing them, I would still be doing them. So, it's a relatively light lift to share. 4:26 Russ Roberts: What does that do to you as a person? I often wonder--I look at you; we have very similar lives right now. We both podcast, we both write books, but we're nothing alike. And, that's fascinating to me. Do you ever feel you're watching your life unfold from the outside, watching yourself be Tim Ferriss? Because, when you put yourself on display the way you have--and I do that too a little bit; not anything close to the level that you do--but you get advice from people who are better than I am at marketing, and they say, 'Guys, share some personal things. People like that. Expose your--people are voyeurs.' And so, does that--does that change has changed you, and does it lead to out-of-body experiences? Tim Ferriss: This is a very, very good question. I have been from the outset--and I don't know what catalyzed this in the beginning--but certainly as I had more and more exposure, I've been very cognizant of a few different dangerous possibilities, one of which is audience capture--people can find writing on this, there are a number of good pieces--which refers to becoming a caricature of your most extreme traits or behaviors because your audience rewards those things. And, there's a real risk of becoming the mask that you wear. And, for that reason, I will very often go off-menu with guest choice. I might interview someone on who knows what--on any facet of--some odd facet of philosophy. Which is not going to be maximizing downloads. Or do something that is true to my interest, but controversial, which will cull my audience in a sense--divide, and possibly cull my audience--to reinforce the driver that I think will preserve my, not just integrity, but prevent becoming an observer of a stage act known as Tim Ferriss. Which is really making, whether it's the podcast or the books, the drivers my personal fears, goals, dreams, problems. As long as I stick with that--the things that are relevant to my real life--I feel like I'm operating with an eight-point harness on to prevent some of the dangers of the Internet; or I should just say living at least partially in public to begin with. So, when I meet people who listen to the podcast or have listened for 10 years, let's say, and they say, 'Wow, it must be really strange because you don't know me at all and I think that I know you, but I don't actually know you,' and I have to be careful with this type of conversation sometimes. But, I say, if you've been listening that long, you actually do know me pretty well. Which is both reassuring and terrifying at the same time, because there's such an asymmetry. So, I feel like I have--and this isn't any special pat on the back for me--but I've seen what public exposure has done. And, I'm not--I mean, I'm at best an F-class public figure--but what fame has done to real celebrities or people I've known who have had a lot of unexpected attention--I've seen some of the side effects, and I've wanted to avoid those. 8:19 Russ Roberts: So I'll confess, a handful of times in my life, someone has overheard me talking in a corridor, in a public place, on a plane, or a bus, or whatever, and they've asked me, "Are you Russ Roberts?" And, when I say, maybe six times--but I'm not counting--it's a few times. But, once is incredibly exciting. Even the fifth time is still pretty exciting. And, even more rare is when someone recognizes my face, which has happened maybe, I don't know, twice in my life. But, that must happen to you. Give us a feel for how often that happens. And then I want you to reflect on an incredible essay you wrote in 2020 called "11 Reasons Not to Become Famous." And, before I read that, if you'd asked me--and your, obviously, F might be a little harsh on yourself--but you mention in that essay you're not Brad Pitt. There's certain people who, when you walk the streets, everybody recognizes you. If you had asked me at that level, at your level, even at D, or C, or B, or whatever it's actually, I would have said, 'Yeah, it's hard.' You can't go out in public without people bothering you in a restaurant. You might be trying to have a quiet dinner, and somebody asks for an autograph, or even if they want to say thank you, you're just not in the mood to interact with a stranger. You might be having a nice dinner. But that essay is quite haunting, and it's quite self-reflective, and it's very informative. We'll link to it. It reminds the reader of some of the harsher burdens of success. So, talk about how often you are recognized. I'm just curious. And then, talk about that essay, which I'm sure you remember. Tim Ferriss: I do, I do. Because I still think about all of the risks, and guidelines, and insurance policies that I discussed in that essay, which I wrote for myself also, in a sense. But, if I am in, let's say, Austin, Texas, which is home base--if I'm downtown at a coffee shop or something like that, or in Manhattan, or Williamsburg, or a coastal spot in the Pacific Northwest like a Seattle or a San Francisco--I will, if I'm out and about, get recognized a few times a day. And, generally, people-- Russ Roberts: Do you like that? Do you like that? Tim Ferriss: I've asked myself this question, because when it happens, sometimes people share really kind things, and they mention how specific episodes, or books, or any number of things that I've put out have really helped them, or their son, or their wife, or their fill-in-the-blank. And, that's very gratifying. But, if I am in one of those cities, let's just say, I will very rarely go to a coffee shop because I can't actually sit down in peace and work at my laptop, or write, or just screw around with a book for an hour or two. It's actually somewhat challenging. And, I've very deliberately--and this is definitely to my economic detriment--de-emphasized and opted out of video for the most part over the last, I would say, four to five years. And, you and I have both seen how YouTube principally has become a massive driver as a growth engine for, quote-unquote, "podcasts," which have more or less become fixed-location television shows by this point--a lot of them. And, I do not want more facial recognition. So, as I look at the newer or future chapters in my life with family, etc.--I don't have family currently, but would love to; I mean, that's a high priority for me--I don't want to compromise my own, and I much less want to compromise members of my family and their privacy when they have not probably set out with the decision to compromise their own privacy. And, there's more that comes with that certainly. If you have enough public exposure, there are safety concerns and other things. So, when I have in the last few years had people come up to me--and they're almost always, I feel very, very, very privileged that my listeners, let's just say in the case of the podcast, tend to be very polite, and well-educated, and well-mannered, and they're just great for the most part--every once in a while, you get a wild card. But, when they walk away, I wonder to myself, what would it feel like not to have that anymore? Would I really miss it? Would I not miss it? I don't have a clear answer. There's definitely a possibility that I would miss some of it because it's gratifying to know that at least some of what you're doing in the world has an impact. But, does it have to happen on the street? Probably not. If it were a blog comment, I think I would get 90 or 100 percent of that gratification, too. It's too bad people don't really--the platform-capture of the social media, or I shouldn't say social media companies, but the larger tech companies--has become so profound that it's more and more challenging to have a private audience like that unless you're using something like a Patreon. 14:26 Russ Roberts: But, talk about that essay. I mean, the part that I can't forget is the insight that in your class at school--I actually have a photograph of my first-grade classroom. Tim Ferriss: That's amazing. Russ Roberts: It was in Moses Lake--excuse me, it was in Montgomery, Alabama--I'm pretty sure. Yeah, I think so. Yeah, Montgomery, Alabama. And, I was there for, like, a year. And there were a couple of things that were obvious when you look at the picture. One is, I was a really small six-year-old. You just look at the room--we're all sitting at desks. The second thing that you notice in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1960 is they're all white. The third thing you notice is there's about 30-something kids in that room. And, in today's world, that would be considered bad--too many kids. But you pointed out that in a class of 30, there might be a peculiar person in there. And then, you think, well, what if you had a class of 30,000? Well, there'd be a few people in a small town you'd have challenges with, interacting. And, when you have an audience of millions, as you do, there are going to be some flaky people in there, and they're going to interact with you. And, that's hard. I just want to--let me reflect on what you said first, and then you can come back to that. I find it deeply gratifying when people write me, and they do. And, for those of you listening, I can't tell you how wonderful it is to hear that I played any role that's positive in your life. Which is what you were talking about. It's interesting how joyous that makes me for a very short period of time. I sometimes write people, 'You made my day.' And that's an expression. Unfortunately, it doesn't last a whole day. It's interesting how our egos--our sense of insecurity, vulnerability, whatever you want to call it--it's nice, you get a little bump, and then it just, you go right--you can't savor it much. My mom, I think, gets more pleasure. I send them sometimes to my mom, and she gets a thrill. She really likes it. But, it's interesting when you say, 'Would you miss it?' Whenever I reflect on it, I get deep pleasure from it. But, it's interesting how it doesn't come up in my mind as often as you'd think it might. Anyway, react to that if you want, and then talk about the challenges of that 30,000--or 3-million-person village you're the king or the mayor of. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, I'll talk about the village metaphor, and it might be helpful to people. And, I think it's going to be increasingly important for even the--let's just call it average George[?-ian? Yang?]--to think about these things as parasocial relationships become easier and easier to develop with platforms using algorithmically-driven A, B, or C to keep people on platforms. So, I'll explain what I mean by that. So, I guess in a nutshell, it's never been easier for people to be micro-famous for short periods of time. And, I'll tell you what the risks are of being micro-famous even for an hour, a day, or a week--and there can be some durability to it. So, as you mentioned, the--let's just say, the expression of the village idiot. Every village has its idiot. By idiot, I would say historically they mean a crazy person. It's not necessarily someone who is dumb. It's someone who is just not quite there, not quite normal. And, if you then expand it to a small city, well, now you're going to have, who knows, 50, 100 of those people. Then you go to--to expand out, you get to a New York City. Which is, let's just say, New York City's probably half of the size of my monthly audience. Okay. So, two New York Cities. How many crazy people are in two New York Cities? Well, you have quite a lot of people who may not be full-time insane, but people who are a little unstable--from a little unstable or impulsive to crazy. You're going to have many, many, many, many of the entire classroom you mentioned, right? Why is this relevant? This is relevant because oftentimes when I explain to folks some of the things that have happened as a result of public exposure, I tell them about the death threats. I tell them about the crazy stalkers. I tell them about having to escalate stuff to the FBI [Federal Bureau of Investigation] or law enforcement. I talk about having to have security at events because of A, B, or C people who say they're going to come and find me. They ask what I'm doing. What are you talking about that is so controversial? What are you putting out in the world? And, I say, 'Nothing.' You just need enough crazies in your digital village, so to speak, and these things will happen. It's almost inevitable. And I'm on, for instance, a private WhatsApp group with a number of people who are involved with media in various ways and have public exposure. And, this is a perennial topic that comes up. They all deal with this stuff on one level or another. Some of it's scarier than other pieces. Some of it is more inconvenient than other pieces. But, if you have sufficient exposure, you will contend with a lot of these things. You'll have, for instance--I mean, this is the way I open that piece--but I have fans, readers, listeners reach out continually saying something along the lines of, 'You're my last chance. I've tried everything. If you don't reply to me in 48 hours and help me, I'm going to kill myself.' What do you do with that? Right? And, you do have to figure out what your policies are for contending with things like that, or you're going to be endlessly enmeshed with person after person after problem after problem. And, for people who are listening, they might think, 'Well, must be interesting to have this problem as someone who has a podcast with a billion downloads.' But, the reason that I mentioned at the outset this is going to become more and more relevant for more and more people is that the reason, for instance, a TikTok-- one of the reasons that TikTok--gained so much traction, and now the other platforms are creating their own versions of TikTok to try to capitalize on this phenomenon of very short-form videos. But, part of the reason that TikTok succeeded was not the brevity of the videos themselves. It was that anyone creating videos had a chance, like someone buying a lottery ticket, of winning big. They didn't need a large platform to suddenly go viral and have tens of millions or hundreds of millions of views. And, if you have that type of spike in notoriety, and if--certainly you try to capitalize on it by sustaining it, even if it's--again, coming back to the little village, the larger village, etc.--forget about a hundred million people. Even if you just get exposed to 10,000 people, but prior to that, no one knew who you were, there's a very good chance that you'll be exposed to some of these challenges on a smaller scale, and you'll need to deal with them on a smaller or a larger scale. So, that's another reason why I wrote that piece, because I feel like the technologies in place, and the incentives they're creating, and the capabilities they're creating, are going to subject more and more people to these weirdly lopsided parasocial relationships. And, most people, for instance--this is not perfect either--but have not bought their homes through an LLC [Limited Liability Company], or a trust, or something like that. And, that's an imperfect solution. But, if people can find you very easily--you and your family--you need to be aware of that. And, that's just a long, I suppose, TED Talk [Technology, Entertainment, Design Talk] answer to your prompt, but I'll stop there. 23:50 Russ Roberts: Well, it actually makes me really sad that this is the nature of the world. This is only tangentially related, but I'll mention that I was in Venice for the first time. I'm happy to say nobody recognized me. And, I should also say that I'm surprised I got in. I was clearly the most overweight person in Venice. I am not obese by BMI standards--Body Mass Index--but somehow they either subsidized attractive people--but I got in--or banned unattractive people. But, I got in. Tim Ferriss: Is this Venice, California, or Venice, Italy? Russ Roberts: No, Italy. Just very attractive men and women dressed much better than I am. I would add that as well. But, before I went, and after I went, I read a few things that had mentioned Venice that were precious to me. One of them is a short story by Mark Helprin. It's the lead story to The Pacific , and that is an extraordinary collection of short stories. And, that first story is called "Il Colore Ritrovato." I don't know how to pronounce it in Italian properly. But I encourage listeners to read it. It is a magnificent, funny, poignant story about the costs of fame, and I'm not going to say anything more than that. But, in that story, giving up fame has an aesthetic component. Obviously, the thing you mentioned--which I think is very deep, and true, and sad, and complicated--that after a while, we as performers, creators, artists, whatever--fill in the blank--cater to our audience and seek the things that give us a rush from their approval, and find ourselves in a very strange game. I think that's a deep, deep insight. And that's what the Mark Helprin story is about, so I encourage people to read it. But, it suggests that people who have something to share with the world--I'm not sure TikTok videos are the biggest loss--but that some of that is lost in a world where fame is both dangerous to your physical wellbeing, or your emotional wellbeing. Tim Ferriss: I certainly agree with that. And, I can't remember the attribution--I'm not going to type on my keyboard right now--someone I'm sure can find it. But, there's a quote that really stuck with me, and it was from, I would say, a credible source, whether it was a very well-known artist or otherwise. But the quote was along the lines of, 'The danger is not in imitating other people. The danger is when you end up imitating yourself.' And that really stuck with me. And I was, like: What does that mean, to imitate yourself? And then you look online, and it relates to the audience capture that I mentioned, where your most exaggerated positions, or exaggerated behaviors, or fill in the blank--things that take a few components of your personality, which may actually be true, may actually exist--and put them into these warp dimensions almost like you're walking through a funhouse with these bizarre mirrors, and then feeds it back to you and says, 'Do more of this. Do it bigger. Make it louder, make it crazier.' And, I'll say what I said before, because I say it to myself a lot: Be very careful of the masks that you wear, because it's very easy to become that mask. And then, it's no longer the real you and the stage you. They become the same thing. So, in any case, I do think these are worth thinking about, also because it helps guide your decisions. And, I remember long ago--I didn't heed this advice--but when I was in college, one of my friends, his father was the producer of the first successful Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie. Which came out of nowhere. The story of the making of that film is just insane. It's really worth digging into. But, what he said was, 'You want everybody to know your name, and no one to know your face.' And, in retrospect, that was really good advice. Russ Roberts: Yeah, it's really interesting. I have a face for podcasting, so I'm okay. Although YouTube--as you point out--I have not cracked YouTube successfully. My audio is much, much, much more successful. But, I think increasingly, YouTube is what people turn to for content of various kinds, and that's just a reality. We should start a podcast together, Tim. We'll both wear masks. Let's shift gears. I want to talk a little bit about-- Tim Ferriss: I'm just imagining you in a Lucha--like a Mexican Lucha Libre mask. What style of Lucha Libre mask would you have? Russ Roberts: I don't know. I'm going to Venice. I'm getting a Venetian-- Tim Ferriss: Oh, nice-- Russ Roberts: Venetian thing, I think. Tim Ferriss: Okay, I'll do the Lucha Libre. You can do the Masquerade Ball mask. Russ Roberts: Exactly. 29:39 Russ Roberts: I want to talk about habits, because you're occasionally, at least in public, a person of habit. Is every day of your life roughly the same with certain regimens that you enforce on yourself as well as your workflow? Or is every week somewhat the same? Or is every day and week wildly different? Tim Ferriss: I would say probably the middle answer is the closest to the truth, which is: I have frequently a weekly architecture of some type. And, this is not unique to me. I know Jack Dorsey used to do this. I know I borrowed it from other folks in the sense that I used to have more regimented daily routines, but I found that I was doing a lot of task switching. So, I would do this type of task with my employees for X period of time; and this type of task with deep work, some type of creative immersion for X period of time. And, what I found to be, from a, let's just say, professional productivity perspective, much more manageable, and much more sustainable, much more pleasant, is having, for instance, Mondays and Fridays I do recordings at 10 a.m. or 3:00 p.m., my local time. And, I don't have to fill all those slots. Those are just the slots that are available so my calendar doesn't have podcast recordings scattered everywhere here and there. And then, certain types of, say, physical training will be on set days. And, by doing that, I might have, let's just say, Wednesday for principally writing, if I'm going to be doing writing. And then, on Tuesdays--Tuesdays tend to be the admin, miscellaneous, one-on-one with employee day. So, all of the management pieces which, when they are scattered, I allow to drive myself crazy. I have very low tolerance for that type of thing. So, it's much better to just create one critical mass where I can batch those similar tasks in one place. On a daily basis, let's just say--because people are often interested in morning routines--if you were to take all of the morning routines I have tested, and all of the morning routines of my guests, and all the morning routines of some other figures out there who are well known, and stack them together, your morning routine would last 27 hours. So, I don't do all of those things, but any given time there are a few things that I will do, and it's, I would say, selecting two or three things out of a list of 10. So, do I have to meditate, sauna, cold plunge, do zone 2 training, do all of these things before I have my first cup of coffee? No, I don't. But, for instance, last night I just had some issue with the HVAC [heating, ventilation, and air conditioning]. The AC [air conditioning] in my room wasn't working very well. So, I didn't sleep terribly well. So, this morning it's, like, 'Okay, I'm going to have exogenous ketones,'--we can talk about that if you want--'but just to provide my brain with some fuel, and also hopefully a little bit of anti-inflammation, I'm going to do a very short cold plunge, three to four minutes; going to have some tea.' So, I had two types of tea--Pu-erh tea specifically--and a little bit of breathing while I'm freezing my ass off in the cold plunge, and then straight into the game. That's it. The whole thing took whatever it was, 10 to 15 minutes. But, let's just say, tomorrow--oh, I also did measure my HRV [Heart Rate Variability] first thing upon waking up, with two different devices. But, let's just say tomorrow if I'm not stiff, if I slept a little better, maybe I skip the cold plunge, but maybe I do a walk with my dog with a rucksack on to go get coffee, or something like that. So I would say the morning routine varies, but if it's helpful to people--and I originally got this from Tony Robbins, who can be controversial in his own right, but he has some very useful frameworks--the idea of keeping in mind the following progression: state, story, strategy. So, if you're in a pissy mood because you didn't sleep well, and you sit down with your journal to figure out how you're going to solve your problems, you're going to have a disabling or pessimistic story, which will lead you to have really suboptimal strategies. So, for me--really physiologically, neurophysiologically, how do I prime my state in the morning--first and foremost, so that the story I have is a glass-half-full, more optimistic story, so that any strategies I come up with are going to be more enabling: I mean I see more possibilities. So, almost all of the things I just mentioned from this morning, and pretty much every morning, are focused on state first. And then, if I want to journal, if I want to brainstorm, that's fine, but that comes after I've tried to establish a helpful state. Russ Roberts: That's fantastic. I'm going to add a twenty-minute Jewish prayer service to your morning, so it'll be more like, so it can be a 27-and-a-half-hour morning for you. 35:39 Russ Roberts: But, when I hear your morning, Tim, I'm a little bit embarrassed. I get your weekly email, which I enjoy, and I'm aware that there are things in your life that not only do I not do them, I don't know what they are when I read them. So, very quickly--very quickly for listeners--because we have much more to talk about--what is an exogenous ketone? And, a cold plunge, can that be done in one's own home without a bathtub? I mean, where do you do that? And then, the tea, is there some special characteristic of the tea? I could definitely use a better state on many mornings. This morning I slept--I did a crazy travel thing yesterday, so I got home, and I slept about--I needed about 10 hours to make up for the hours I missed over the last 48, and I got four and a half. So, I woke up in a dark state. I had no ketones. I did not cold plunge, and I had no tea. I did have my wife's coffee, which is exceptional, and I had her conversation, which is also exceptional. So that helped. But, give us a quick review there. And, in doing so, I want to ask you: Do you try to go to bed at the same time and get up at the same time every day? Tim Ferriss: I try, and I usually fail. Russ Roberts: Okay. I fail all the time. Carry on. Tell us what those things are. Tim Ferriss: It would really benefit you, for a host of different biological reasons, to go to sleep and wake up at the same time. I just seem to not be able to comply with this very basic demand. But, to answer your questions-- Russ Roberts: I'm not an animal. Animals are good at that. God bless 'em. But it's hard as a human. I get it. But, go ahead, sorry. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, no problem. So, exogenous ketones, just in brief--let me explain what ketones are. So, if you didn't eat for three to four days, all of this precious body fat that we're so good at storing has a purpose. And, your body would begin to shift from glucose, which is your default fuel for most people, and it would shift to breaking down body fat into ultimately a number of things, but including these beautiful, beautiful things called ketones. And, your brain, cardiac tissue, etc., loves ketones. It is a very clean fuel. If people want to dive into it, they can just consult Uncle ChatGPT [Generative Pre-trained Transformer], and it'll tell you all about this. Ketones also--for instance, beta-hydroxybutyrate; let's just call it a type of ketone--have a lot of anti-inflammatory properties. And, I'm not going to make this into a 30-minute thing, but I think the context is helpful. If you look at, for instance, the Atkins diet--some people might recognize--or the ketogenic diet: well, when did that initially get codified? I shouldn't say 'initially'; it's been used for a long time in various traditions with fasting, but they've never thought about it as a ketogenic diet. It was developed for epileptic children, and I want to say this was in the early 20th century, where they would use heavy cream primarily to help kids adhere to this diet-- incredibly effective for decreasing the occurrence of treatment-resistant or pharmacologically-resistant epilepsy. There's also a lot of research looking at using it for schizophrenia, and Chris Palmer at Harvard right now has done a lot of work, and he labels this metabolic psychiatry. So, the ketogenic diet and ketones in general are very, very interesting also for potentially addressing autoimmune diseases, autoimmune conditions. But, the reason I am taking exogenous ketones--that's a fancy word, E-X-O, exogenous , just like exoskeleton, just means outside of the body--so endogenously , in your body, you can produce ketones, but you have to follow this very strange diet that is hard for a lot of people to follow, and it takes time to get into it. The cheat code--and I'm not convinced that doing this all the time is good for you--but in a break-glass-in-case-of-emergency situation, I've been experimenting with it, you just have supplemental ketones. So, just like a dietary supplement, some are in liquid form, some are in powder form. There's one that I sometimes mix with my coffee called--I think it's Qitone with Q-I-T-O-N-E. Just use it as your creamer. Be forewarned, have a bathroom nearby when you first use it. Some people have a disaster-pants-type response to it the first one or two times. So, FYI [for your information], probably don't do it for the first time on an airplane. And, that's what I would say, in brief, exogenous ketones are. There are a lot of interesting books written about this subject, but look up Chris Palmer and metabolic psychiatry for the state side of the story. It also is very beneficial for some things you might not expect, like zone 2 training--which is a type of, let's just call it, aerobic exercise--and Peter Attia speaks at length about that. Cold plunge: you kind of need a bathtub for that one. There are some bath houses that will have cold plunge available. I have something called The Plunge. It's sort of the best bang-for-the-buck cold plunge that I've been able to find. I'm using it at 40 to 43 degrees Fahrenheit, which is very cold. I don't know what that is in Celsius, but I can assure you it is very, very cold. And, I'll typically do that for five to 10 minutes. And, there are some very, very interesting effects of that, not just on the sympathetic fight-or-flight nervous system, but after that first acclimation period of, say, three minutes or so, for a lot of folks, actually activating parasympathetic rest-or-digest, which I think, in some cases, explains the mood-elevating effects. Cold baths used to be prescribed for melancholy way back in the day. This isn't entirely new; we're just getting a better understanding of the science. However, you can get the poor man's 20% of that by sticking your face in ice or something like that. Ben Stiller actually, in Tribe of Mentors , talked about putting his face--I think it was Ben Stiller--in a bucket of ice. So, you could just have a huge mixing bowl full of water and ice if you want to get a little bit of the payoff of that. But, really, full body is the way to go. And then, on the tea side, I mentioned two types of tea. In this case, I use something called Pique tea--P-I-Q-U-E--and the reason for that is you can instantly mix it instead of having to steep and stuff. But you can kind of use what you want. I love drinking Pu-erh tea. There seem to be a host of different benefits related to Pu-erh tea--that's a Chinese tea--related to not just microbiome, but also potential fat loss, and things like that. It also just tastes delicious. It's got a very kind of peaty--if you like whiskey, Pu-erh tea--it doesn't taste exactly like whiskey--but it has that very peaty, barnyard type of smell and almost taste to it. So, that's as much for pleasure as for anything else. Russ Roberts: Awesome. That sounds awesome. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Russ Roberts: I can't help but mention my favorite description of Laphroaig scotch, which, they had a contest--it sounds like an apocryphal story, but I think it's true. They had a contest to create a slogan for Laphroaig, or a description of Laphroaig, and somebody--Laphroaig is one of my three favorites with Lagavulin and Ardbeg. I like peaty. So, this person wrote, 'Drinking Laphroaig is like kissing a mermaid after she's eaten barbecue.' I thought that is just pure poetry. Tim Ferriss: That's pretty good. That's pretty good. Russ Roberts: How do you-- Tim Ferriss: If you-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, go ahead. Tim Ferriss: No, no. How do I spell Pu-erh tea? Russ Roberts: Yes, exactly. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. P-U--there's often a hyphen or an apostrophe put in--E-R-H is generally how it's written in English. There's another one. If you want the closest to whiskey--and I'm actually not a big whiskey drinker, but there are a lot of similarities--a friend of mine wanted to go sober, but he just loved the taste of whiskey so much, he was stuck in a conundrum, and he found a tea called Lapsang souchong tea. Russ Roberts: Yeah, sure. It's a classic. Tim Ferriss: And, that also has a very whiskey-like flavor to it. So, he would have that after dinner, and it scratched the itch. 44:58 Russ Roberts: Very cool. How has Uncle ChatGPT, Cousin Claude--how have they changed your workflow, your life in any way? Tim Ferriss: So, I simultaneously feel like maybe at some point I'll be part of the Butlerian Jihad--to invoke something from Dune --sort of this, I don't want to say Luddite because that sounds very judgmental, but this, like, rise against the thinking machines. I may be part of that at some point. But, at the same time, I use LLMs [large language models] and AI [artificial intelligence] dozens of times a day, and I encourage my employees to use it dozens of times a day, and it's going to change everything. I don't think--some of the capabilities, the current capabilities--are overstated, but I think the implications, even 12 months from now, might be under estimated by a lot of people. So, I use it for any type of research, and I will fact check. Of course, you need to have models check one another. But, for any type of diligence on, say, a startup, or on an industry, or to find scientific literature--right? When I'm looking at these new experiments that I want to run, it saves so much time. It is impossible to overstate. I mean, what would have taken me a week, or at least multiple days of fishing around, finding old PDFs [Portable Document Format], trying to scan those PDFs, and then go to Google, and then sort past all the ads to find the one credible PubMed link to do the this, the that--that's all done in seconds. And, there are better prompts and worse prompts, so certainly you need to get better at asking questions. But, fortunately, I spend a lot of time thinking about questions. And, there are still hallucinations for sure, and there's some pretty creepy stuff about AI learning to lie, which is quite interesting-- Russ Roberts: Yep. It wants to please you-- Tim Ferriss: or certainly they're willing to lie. Russ Roberts: It wants to please you. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Russ Roberts: Weird. Of course, it's trained on people . So, it's not that--people think, 'Yeah, why is that weird? It's trying to please me.' Yeah, because guess what? Most of the material it reads is written by people who are trying to please other people. I don't find that--at least that's my take on them. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. So, we'll see. I mean, I have a lot of friends involved--deeply, deeply involved--with AI. I'm involved with a lot of companies that are--I mean--entirely focused on AI in different facets. But, I wouldn't say it's--I'll tell you what I don't use it for, because I think that's maybe interesting or-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, go ahead. Tim Ferriss: at least to me, it's important. I don't use it for writing. I want to preserve that capability. I want to keep that muscle from atrophying. I don't want my writing, and my synthesis, and my ability to do things long-form, to go the way of my ability to remember friends' phone numbers, or to chart a map to a basic location--which is now dependent on Google Maps--I don't want those faculties to disappear. So, if I am writing, I am writing, and I view that just like I would going to the gym. If I decide to train to run a marathon, I'm not going to take an Uber from the start line to the finish line. I'm there to do the training and to do the thing. And there is a value, I believe--at least for me--in trying to preserve it, at least until I've been able to see some of the longer-term ramifications of becoming really dependent on these tools. So, that might end up seeming very silly a few years from now, looking back, but for now, I don't use it for writing. Russ Roberts: Yeah. I mean, if you write well, it's a dangerous--it's not very helpful, is the way I would say. It's not dangerous. There is a danger that you become--to use it as a crutch--because it's quick. I was on the-- Tim Ferriss: It's alarmingly good. I mean, that's-- Russ Roberts: Yeah. It's better than you'd think. I was on this--the trip I took to Italy where I was in Venice--I was also, I had an afternoon off. And I was recovering. I was in the Dolomites. I recovered from a, quote, "easy walk," according to the guidebook, that I decided that the second day, where I was going to do some more easy walks, I would stay home. So, I took a gondola at the top of a hill of a mountain and looked around and enjoyed it. Then in the afternoon, [?] instead of a hike[?] I wrote an essay. And the way I wrote it was: I narrated it into my voice memo app on my phone for half an hour. I had a pretty good idea of what I was going to say, but I rambled, and it didn't go together particularly well. And then, I had a transcription of that on my phone, and I asked one of the LLMs to clean it up and format it. I didn't have it write it. I've done that, too. It's really good at that for work--as work product, a memo I need to write, and I don't care how creative it is. But it's really good at formatting and cleaning up. And then, I had to spend another few hours polishing it, and I only had my phone, so it took longer. It took a couple hours instead of maybe a half an hour. But it can't--it can write beautifully, but it can't write like me. So, I'm not interested. At least for now. And, by the way, I asked it--I think, I don't know, six weeks ago, two months ago, I told someone I would never outsource my questions for EconTalk . I always read the books. I always prep for the guests that way. But, I did ask it, I said, 'I'm going to interview Tim Ferriss. What should I ask him?' And, of course, I had to check some of the things--'Oh, Tim does X, Y, Z,' and I thought: I wonder if it's true. And, it came up with, you know, maybe, I don't know, 25 good questions on different topics I suggested it might be worth talking to you about. And two or three of them were worth editing to put into my list. But, not only would I not want to have that skill atrophy: It's not that good at it. It's just, at least for now. It might get better. Tim Ferriss: I would absolutely, and I actually plan to, use the LLMs for formatting or bullet pointing-- Russ Roberts: It's good at that. Tim Ferriss: It's helping to structure writing in the same way that you described, because I don't write as much as I would like to write. Okay, so what are the rate-limiting steps? What's the failure mode? What are the failure points? And, one of them is--not shocking to, I think, anyone who writes--it's just facing the blank page. But, if I can ramble, much like I used to just talk through what I wanted to write with a friend, and then a lot would become very clear. To start with voice, I think, would allow me just to write more. So, is using AI to write more better than not using AI and not writing the pieces at all? Of course. Or I shouldn't say of course. But for me, the answer is: Of course. And, it's just going to permeate everything. It's going to become kind of invisible. It's going to be the engine behind so many things. I'm excited and terrified of it. So, people are probably sick of hearing about it, but-- Russ Roberts: No, they're not. Tim Ferriss: it's--yeah. Russ Roberts: In Austin they are, trust me. In the rest of the world, it's, like--I was at a meal the other day, and I asked somebody--I asked the group--'You guys use AI?' 'Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah.' I said, 'How often?' These are people roughly my age, say 60 and up--60 to 80. 'Do you use it?' 'Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.' 'Well, how often?' 'I don't know. I've used it a couple times.' But, I'm like you, I use it 10 times a day. It's like, 'You guys,' I'm saying, 'you're not using it.' Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yeah. I mean, we're going to see probably single-person, single-owner, billion-dollar businesses within the next few years that employ AI agents as they would employ someone they might otherwise hire as a CFO [Chief Financial Officer] or something like that. I mean, it's going to be--I would not be surprised if that's the case. I really wouldn't. Based on what I've seen, doing some travel overseas and spending time, for instance, in the UAE [United Arab Emirates], who is very, very, very aggressive on the AI front and what they've already done at a governmental level. I mean, it's shocking what they are capable of doing. It's like looking into the future, and we're not even getting started yet. Russ Roberts: Yeah, it's true. Tim Ferriss: It's exciting. 54:37 Russ Roberts: Let's shift gears. Let's talk about podcasting. I know you've only done a mere 800. Sorry. How do you prep? And, do you have explicit goals? If so, what are they? Or just let the conversation go where it's going to go? Tim Ferriss: For me, I try to deliver on the basic premise of the show, which is deconstructing world-class performers to give you tools, routines, habits, frameworks, technology that you can use. So, that's the fundamental promise and premise of the show. So, I try to deliver on that. What that means is there's a risk of some of these conversations, because of my own personal interest, becoming a little self-indulgent, right? So, if I want to talk to someone, as has happened, about panpsychism, it's like: Okay, I can talk to one of the most cited genius speakers and professors who is a proponent of this theory of panpsychism. But, at the end of that two-hour conversation--and I do this also--we talked about the culling of the audience; and so on, so occasionally I'll do something like that, which is just purely self-interest and self-indulgent. What I try to find is the Venn diagram of things that are very personally interesting to me, whether I have a challenge, a problem. Like, right now, my heart rate variability--I mentioned measuring that with two different devices in the morning--is continually low, and we could get into heart rate variability [HRV] and why that's important, but generally for health, and performance, and so on, higher HRV is better. That's the very kind of simple way to put it. Russ Roberts: Higher HR or higher HRV? Higher variability-- Tim Ferriss: HRV. Russ Roberts: or higher rate? Tim Ferriss: Higher variability. Russ Roberts: Meaning? Meaning-- Tim Ferriss: I'll let people look it up. Yeah, yeah. We'll get into--it's basically the variability of--there are different ways to measure heart rate variability. But when you wear any number of different wearable devices that are tracking biometrics, oftentimes they'll give you a recovery score, and they might say, 'Hey, hey, take it easy, tiger. Your recovery score is really low. Don't do a lot of intense exercise today.' Or the next day, 'Hey, your recovery score is really high, go for it. Go crazy, hit the gym.' A lot of that is based on heart rate variability. The reason I'm bringing that up is that this is something that is very present for me, and this feeds into--so that's the reason for, say, seeking someone out I can talk to about HRV or specifically what interventions you can use to affect HRV. And then, that led me to look at any number of things, and I found a credible scientist who is very well cited, who is got all the bona fides , because there's a lot of nonsense floating around out there, as you're aware. Russ Roberts: Yup. Tim Ferriss: All right. So, there's the reason; there's the person. Okay: Now, what's the prep? I listen to multiple interviews with this person. He is not overly saturated, but he does have a few long-form interviews. I listen to those. I am about 70% of the way through a book that he wrote, which has a bunch of references that I've also dug into. And because this is, hopefully, personally valuable to me, I've also gone into PubMed, and I've gone through the literature, and I've reached out to friends of mine who are biotech investors to ask them about different devices. I've really done a ton of homework on this. And, before I interview this person, I'm going to test a few different things that I'm hoping will affect HRV. I just haven't measured mine in a long time, so I'm establishing basically a seven-day baseline before I start adding any interventions as variables. So, that would be a very, very current example. And, the research can take a long time. What does that mean? Like, in this case, it's going to be a week or two of prep. I can't do that for every interview; nor do I need to. So, in some cases, it might be someone I know really well on a subject I know really well. Then the question is: how do I pull out actionable details or advice that listeners can use--that they can use--ideally test in the next 48 hours or a week. And, that's it. I'd say that's the way it goes. And, in some instances--for instance, I find it easier to interview specialists who are not large public figures. If I'm interviewing someone who is an A-list celebrity--I remember the first time I interviewed Arnold Schwarzenegger or Jamie Foxx--they've been interviewed so many hundreds of times, I did a head-spinning amount of research because I wanted them to know that I had done my homework, and I wanted to come to them from an angle that they would find interesting, that would put them on notice that this wasn't going to be an autopilot interview, and hopefully it would make them game to play ball. Right? Because there are a lot of guests who can be great--they can be great--but if they're, like, 'Oh God, this is just going to be the same 10 questions I always get,' of course, understandably, just as I would, they're going to go on autopilot. Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Russ Roberts: So, I never--interestingly--I never listen to an interview with a guest that has already been done. I always want to be fresh. I don't want to have any of that. I don't know if that's good or bad, so that's the difference between us. Tim Ferriss: I can tell you why I do it. Russ Roberts: Yeah, tell me. Tim Ferriss: So, there are times-- Russ Roberts: I like it--well, what you just said is part of it. You don't want to just mimic the obvious things because it affects their behavior. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. The other part of it--and sometimes I will ask them in advice, and I really enjoyed your pre-recording boot-up sequence, the flight safety instructions before we got started, because I learned something new. You're like, 'If I'm leaning back, that means let it rip. And, if I start to lean forward, that means make some space, I'll have an interjection.' I'm like, that's so smart. That's such--it's a silent cue, and I might not be doing a great job of dancing with that because I'm not always looking at the screen. My eyes wander around-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, yeah. Of course-- Tim Ferriss: but I was like, 'Oh, I could definitely steal that. I could definitely borrow that.' Part of the reason--I'll give you one that I often will ask, but sometimes I'll already have the answer from having listened to one or two interviews--and that is: What are some of your greatest hits? Meaning stories. If you had a TED Talk, what are the stories that you've told that you know stick, or get a response from an audience, or resonate really deeply? What are stories that you've heard told back to you? And: Let's just start with one or two of those. I don't always do that, but I'll frequently do that, and it's for two reasons. One, for sure, you would expect it will help hook an audience and get them to sit down, and my objective is commit to a long-form conversation despite all of the drive to short form. The second is to boost the confidence of the guest and allow them to hit their stride comfortably-- Russ Roberts: I love that-- Tim Ferriss: without stumbling out of the blocks. So, that's the other reason. Russ Roberts: So, you interviewed me three years ago about my book Wild Problems , and I did go back and look at some of that before we did this, and I was stunned--because I'd forgotten it--how you opened that interview. So, here we are, talking about a new book, standard thing: 'Tell us about your book. Why'd you call it Wild Problems ? What is a wild problem?' And, your opening question was about an essay I'd written for my father, for my father's eulogy, that--when my father passed away--and it's a very--you could argue it's interesting to some people, but the more important fact you're highlighting now is that it changed our interaction. It put me at ease because I'm talking about something that's deeply--happens to put me at ease--a deeply personal thing that I could talk about for years. So, I'm not, like, stumbling. But that's a great trick, the greatest hits part. I was going to ask you later, something like that. We may get to it. 1:03:47 Russ Roberts: And, I want to digress for a second away from podcasting--we'll come back to it--but I want to ask you, when you went through that list of the heart rate variability expert and the things you're going to do, so my--my inner Tim Ferriss finds that extremely exciting. The idea that, more generally, that I could drink a certain kind of tea, and I'm not aware of it but I could discover it, either through research or through talking to you, and change my mood. And, be a better colleague, a better husband, or--that cold plunge--those kind of things, I'm a sucker for that. Okay? But I also know I'm a sucker for it. And my outer--my inner something else--I don't know who it is; it's not you--is much more skeptical of, as you alluded to, and there was a little phrase you used. I'm much more skeptical of the effectiveness of many of those things. Tim Ferriss: Sure. Me, too. Russ Roberts: And, yet, I think a phrase--a word--that would describe your approach to life, perhaps fairly but perhaps unfairly, is the word 'optimizer.' You're always looking for an edge. Not a competitive edge, but an edge in life. An edge, a piece of information, a habit, a supplement that will make you more effective. Is that fair? And, how do you feel about that? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah, I would say it's fair in certain areas. And I would say I over-apply optimizing, let's just say, 20 years ago. But, that I've become much more surgical with where I apply it. Because, I don't think life--our short experience on this planet--is meant to be endlessly optimized. You can end up with trade-offs that make it a losing trade. And we could discuss what I do mean by that. I do think there can be an optimizer's curse of sorts, and there are various species of that. So, for instance, right now with something that--let's just say HRV. If we take that as foundational on a pyramid with--I guess I'm going to be mixing metaphors here--but with an upstream effect on a lot of other things, in this case, thinking of the pyramid, that's of interest to me. Because, if there's a simple intervention with very limited downsides--there are constraints that I apply to these interventions, especially if I'm going to be discussing them publicly on something like a podcast--limited known downside--so there's a cap on the downside. There's a relatively fast feedback loop so you can determine with some type of tracking whether it's having an effect or not. And, yes, N of one, no placebo control, yada, yada. I get it. With some literature support, ideally. Then that's of interest. But, am I going to speed-read poetry, for instance? I would say 30 years ago--did I read much poetry? No. Now I read a lot more poetry, and I read a lot more fiction. And, there are books I don't want to end. I will read them more slowly. Russ Roberts: Yeah, true. Tim Ferriss: I will read fewer and fewer pages each night because I don't want that book to end. There are a few different risks of, I would say, optimizing. And, people talk about life-hacking, body-hacking, biohacking, this hacking, that hacking. And, the first is that if you try to optimize everything, you can't be an expert in every domain, so you're going to end up playing the sucker in some of those areas if you're borrowing conviction and throwing a lot of intervections[?interventions?] into the soup at once. So, for me--I'm actually probably going to write a blog post about this. But: How do you think about testing different interventions as an N of one--as a human, as a guinea pig--who is interested in results, first and foremost, and not trying to model an RCT, a Randomized Controlled Trial, even though those are important? But, the truth is--and this is why I get very frustrated sometimes with scientists who are, like, 'I don't believe anything but the data.' And, 'We can't know this, therefore we need to wait for large-scale randomized controlled trials.' And it's like, 'Well, as somebody who funds science, and I know that you know that I know that you know, that that study is going to cost at least a million dollars to run and nobody is going to fund it.' Right? So, in the meantime, if people are suffering--right?--you can say that on a podcast. But, I'm like, 'Mr. Scientist or Mrs. Scientist, let me ask you: If that were your seven-year-old son, what would you do? You wouldn't wait for an RCT. How would you actually navigate that maze?' The other optimizer's curse is that--and I've suffered from this--and I think if you think, for instance, some of the advice in the 4-Hour Workweek and you take it to an extreme, you can end up in this position: If you value--the more highly you value--your time, and the more that you view little time commitments/interruptions that are panty pinchers as wasting your time, the more frustrated you can feel for a higher percentage of your day or week. Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: If that makes sense? Russ Roberts: Yeah, I got it. Tim Ferriss: Because, if you're, like, 'Well, my time is worth $200 an hour'--I'm just making that up--and I got this call I didn't want to get, or I had to deal with some family drama, or whatever it is, and that was 45 minutes, you start putting together this mental ledger of how much these problems or inconveniences are burdening your time. And, it can really affect your quality of life, where ostensibly--and this applies to making money, too, or making investments, also--it's like, 'Wait a second.' If you're making an investment that, if you ask why a few times, fundamentally is to improve the quality of life for you and maybe your family, if it makes you a stress case, it's not a good investment. It doesn't really matter what the financial ROI [return on investment] is. If it makes you a continual stress case, you're sort of defeating the point. Similarly, if you're optimizing, but through that optimizing you make yourself less patient, more anxious, more reactive, you're, I guess, missing the point. And I've ended up doing that in the past. So, I try to keep a close eye on that and deliberately, quote-unquote, "waste time" to force myself to chill out, pardon my French. It's just, like: Relax. We're all going to die. We're monkeys spinning on a rock in the middle of space. It doesn't matter that much. Let's do some cosmic insignificance therapy and just breathe a little bit. If you have to sit at the post office for an extra five minutes, who cares? Ask a hundred people what the full name of Alexander the Great is--no idea. So, the idea that you're going to build this tremendous legacy and an extra five minutes on the phone with your mom is going to disrupt your legacy is just patently ridiculous. Russ Roberts: Well, we'll come back to that. I think it was ChatGPT said that you were the Oprah of audio. I did not want to fact-check that. Tim Ferriss: You can see the resemblance. Russ Roberts: But, I want to give you a better compliment, much better. Tim Ferriss: Wow. Russ Roberts: Oprah is a very talented woman, but I think you can do better. I think Tim Ferriss is the Montaigne of 2025. Tim Ferriss: Ooh, thank you. Russ Roberts: Montaigne used himself--his N of 1--to exploit the human condition. And that's kind of your--that's your model. Tim Ferriss: Thank you. Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: That is a huge compliment. Thank you very much. 1:12:47 Russ Roberts: Let me come back to podcasting for a sec. One of the things that I am grateful for, besides the gratifying emails we talked about earlier--which I am very grateful for, by the way. I can't tell listeners how much they do make me happy. I wish it was for a longer period of time, but they are really wonderful when people tell me what impact I've had. Because we don't know-- Tim Ferriss: Yeah-- Russ Roberts: It's one of the stranger things. Not only do we not know them at all, and they've heard us for hundreds and hundreds of hours; but we just don't know what the impact is. You just hope--you know some people are listening every week, but what are they getting out of it? We don't know. It's nice to hear, so please keep those cards and letters coming, folks. But, the other thing I'm grateful for is: my intellectual life is astoundingly better from being able to ask dumb questions to smart people every week. To read their books, to grapple with their ideas, to engage them in conversation is an incredible privilege. When I was younger--I think I've said this maybe once before on the program--the idea that people would send me books for free, I would have been ecstatic beyond imagining, because they were the most important thing in the world to me. That someone would send them to me for free and I could talk to them, the author? and they'd be asking me? is such an extraordinary thing. But, my intellectual life--the journey I've taken intellectually--I'm so grateful for it. It's changed my thinking in so many ways. So I'm curious for you, the veteran of hundreds--800-plus--episodes, how would you say--what difference has that made in your life? It made me a better conversationalist, by the way. It's a glorious thing, but that's actually a small thing compared to the rest. How about you? What has that opportunity to talk to those folks done for you intellectually? Tim Ferriss: Well, it's helped me to remove a lot of verbal tics because I listened to early episodes and they drove me absolutely insane. So it brought my OCD [Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder] to bear on trying to fix verbal tics, not just in post-production. Also, for sure, conversationally I feel more fluid, more capable of asking--not just asking questions, but like you said, asking the dumb questions. Asking the basic questions that are sometimes the key to unlocking a different level of exploration around a topic-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, it's the best-- Tim Ferriss: And, even among--if I were sitting at a table, making--well, I guess I've done this, so I'm not making it up totally. But, you might have a table of eight or nine experts in a field, and you ask the dumb question--the one that you're a little hesitant, embarrassed to ask--and it ends up opening, or I should say highlighting, this deep, unanswered question in the field that has been tabled, let's just say, because it's too challenging to grapple with. Like, the hard problem of consciousness, or something. I mean, that's an exaggerated, maybe mega-example. But, that's a lot of fun. So, playing the idiot, being the conversational court jester, in a sense, I've come to really, really, really enjoy. Because now that I've had 800 at-bats, I've realized how often--not always, but how often--it leads to something really interesting. Separately, I've just become more curious. As I've done more episodes and broadened the scope--and I feel very lucky. I don't know if you feel the same way, but you were early, early, early, early. I came in well after you, but 2014. I feel so lucky that I started when I did because, at the time, interviewing world-class performers to deconstruct and tease out their routines and habits, etc., was new. If I were to start that now, it would not be new-- Russ Roberts: Yeah-- Tim Ferriss: There are five million of those shows on YouTube alone. But, what that allowed me is a broad enough canvas where I can really go into some strange corners and arcane subject matter, and interview those people. So, my breadth of interest has expanded. And, I love it. I love it. I've done it for a long time, as have you. Every once in a while I'm like, 'Gah, this podcasting game, and these young kids with their video. Bah, I'm sick of it.' But, the truth is I have these conversations anyway. Right? And I already had a short conversation with the scientist I'm going to be interviewing. We talked for a half-hour. I was like, 'Why am I doing this? I should just be recording this.' Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: And I was, like, 'Okay, okay, okay, pause, pause, pause. Let's keep it fresh, we'll talk next time.' Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: So, I figure it's so easy technically to record these days, there's no reason to stop doing it. I feel very fortunate that I started when I did. Russ Roberts: Yeah. I started in 2006. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, wow. Russ Roberts: I don't have the focus that you have, which is probably a blessing and a curse for you. And for me, again also, it's a blessing and a curse. I don't have it on a particular kind of style. I always hope my listeners learn something, but I especially like it when I learn something. And, it's not a fact, it's not a claim. What I learn is I can see something that connects what the guest is talking about to something else. And that's just so wonderful. 1:19:27 Russ Roberts: For people who haven't listened to your show, what would be three or four episodes that you're most proud of? The standard question would be that capture what the show is about. I don't care about that. What are the three or four that you were--I mean, I hope you have 30, or 300--but what are a few that you think were especially interesting? Tim Ferriss: I will answer that. Before I forget, I want to offer a tool for people related to one of your earlier questions. Or observations, which is part of you. Like, your inner Tim Ferriss is very interested in these things, these interventions. And then the other part of you is very skeptical of these things--as you should be. I just want to say briefly, like, the scientific method is great. It's not perfect. There are weaknesses. But, it is the best framework so far that we seem to have come up with for not fooling ourselves. So, when you're considering all of these different things--when your inner Tim Ferriss is excited about, 'Oh my God, there are these 20 things I could try,'--how do you not fool yourself? There's actually one AI-based tool, and I'm sure there are many more, that's pretty useful to play with called Consensus.app. And, Consensus.app looks at scientific literature. So you can drop into the search field, 'What is the evidence for or against X doing Y?' Then just let it rip. And it will go through the studies, the meta-analyses, and it will give you a relative ranking on effect/no effect. Or: it does X, or it doesn't do X. It's imperfect; obviously your mileage may vary; do your homework. But, for people who are not going to be really digging into the scientific literature, but they want to do a 60-second check to make sure they're not going down a complete dead end, it's pretty helpful. So, there's that. On the episodes, I would say that I'll give a few, for different reasons. The one episode that I would say I have revisited in my own mind the most that did not get as much attention as I would like, that I feel very proud of, was an early, early interview with a hospice care physician named BJ Miller. BJ Miller has helped thousands of people to transition to death in non-hospital settings. He also went to Princeton after I did--excuse me--he also went to Princeton a few years before I did and was a warning to all incoming students because he had climbed up on this commuter train very late at night, this one-car train that would take students from Princeton to Princeton Junction. He had a watch on. The electricity arced, and he burned off three of his limbs-- Russ Roberts: Oh-- Tim Ferriss: So he's a triple amputee. Very handsome, very charming, incredibly smart. Who has--he's witnessed the last chapters for so many people and facilitated that. The conversation, I think, is really profound on a lot of levels. And it's one of those conversations where he'd say something that seems kind of funny and flippant--maybe it was a joke--and it pops back into your head two weeks later. And you're, like, 'Oh my God, wait a second. There are actually a lot of layers to that.' Sort of like these off-the-cuff comments that, like, the Dalai Lama might make; and you're, like, 'Oh, that's a funny response.' Then a week later, you're, like, 'Wait a second.' He's really got a lot to offer. And that made me think about life and death and living very differently, especially the social components, the human-to-human interactive components. So, BJ Miller I would really recommend. Then I would say from just a pure entertainment, 'Oh my God, how can someone be this full-stack talented?' Jamie Foxx--and his life story--is just incredible. That was an interview that was a giant get for me at the time because it really was before A-listers did podcasts. Podcasts were still the backwater, and radio and TV were the real media. And, did whatever it was, two hours with Jamie, in his recording studio at his house. So he was able to hop on the piano and do impersonations. My God, what a talented human. So I would say for pure entertainment and just watching a performance unfold, Jamie Foxx or Hugh Jackman. It would be one of those two. Then I would say, let me come up with another one. Man, there's so many. It's a paradox of choice problem when you have as many as you or I do. You, especially. But, for me, let's see. I would say maybe the first--and I mention this one just because it really was, I think--and I'm not pointing to my podcast as the catalyst of this--but a turning of the tide with respect to national and international conversations around, and even a regulation of, and scientific funding of psychedelic-assisted therapies for various types of primarily mental health conditions. But, maybe my first conversation with Michael Pollan, the author, around his book How to Change Your Mind . Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: I think it's still a very good overview of that subject matter and a lot of what Saisei Foundation has done, which is this tiny foundation you mentioned that I started quite a long time ago. Saisei Foundation: Saisei means rebirth in Japanese. I lived in Japan for a while. And, a lot of the early science that Saisei focused on was psychedelic-assisted therapies and creating some of the first dedicated centers at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins, and so on. Later, looking at things like brain stimulation and other types of tools. I would say those are a few that come to mind. I'm sure as soon as we stop recording, I'm going to go, 'Oh, God, I should have mentioned A, B, or C.' But, I'll go with those for now. Russ Roberts: No, that's cool. I also interviewed Michael Pollan on that book. It's a really interesting book. And, you have put your money where his mouth is. Which is really a-- Tim Ferriss: Yes. Russ Roberts: It's a fascinating thing. Be interesting to see how that turns out. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, we'll see. Russ Roberts: A lot of potential and unknown. Tim Ferriss: And, definitely not a panacea. I would tell people measure twice and cut once-- Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: You are playing with nuclear power from a psychological and psychiatric perspective. So: Use wisely. Don't find your shaman on Craig's List or Facebook. Work with a proper clinician. Russ Roberts: Good advice, good advice. 1:27:09 Russ Roberts: I want to ask you this, it's off the subject and I want to change gears. We were talking about intellectual growth, and we alluded to optimizing. Do you think you're more disciplined than you were 10 years ago, or less disciplined? Tim Ferriss: Less disciplined. Russ Roberts: Why? Tim Ferriss: I would say less. Russ Roberts: Does it bother you? Tim Ferriss: I don't think it bothers me, no. By disciplined, I would say what I mean by that is 10 years ago, I thought of self-control and discipline as virtues, and maybe they are; but I was much more regimented. And I relied on this highly variable factor, which is willpower. And, I think that's a fool's errand for most things. I think you need systems. I think you need time-blocking and routines in your calendar so that you do not give yourself the opportunity to falter when you haven't had enough sleep, when you haven't had enough caffeine. I really think that systems beat goals. And, which is not to say there is no place for willpower. I just think, much like perhaps, at least in the United States, Protestant work ethic gets emphasized, or something akin to that, is so highly lauded that you can begin to put a lot of effort into things that do not matter in the first place. And similarly--that's doing things that should be easier or more targeted in a very difficult way. And, similarly, I think you could say the same for willpower. And, I still do hard things, don't get me wrong. I still have my favorite forms of suffering-- Russ Roberts: We know this. Cold plunge-- Tim Ferriss: Fasting, exercise, cold plunge, I still do that stuff. But, I try to let the systems do the work when I can. And, setting incentives properly, deadlines, blah, blah, blah. Getting people involved so that what I need to do, I do automatically. So, that's how I would say I'm less disciplined. And, I also just don't take myself as seriously as I did 10 years ago. Because--I said this before, but it's just kind of ridiculous--the more history you read, the more you look at the macro timeline of humanity, and, like, any type of astronomical level, you're looking at timelines, it's just really silly to take yourself too, too seriously. Now, you have to have some, maybe, expected human level of hubris to actually get work done. Like, you have to find meaning or think something is meaningful, even if it's a trick, that's fine. Like, you do need to do that so you're not just, like, 'Oh, what's the point? Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, why lift my finger? Why tap these little monkey hands on this keyboard?' Like, you have to find meaning and purpose in something. Which I get. But, I take myself much, much less seriously than I used to. It's exhausting, taking yourself seriously. Russ Roberts: Now, this idea of systems versus goals and willpower, I think the way I would describe what you are saying is you need to have the willpower to impose the system on yourself, rather than hoping you'll just do the right thing. How did you come to that? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah, do a short, intense sprint that is front-loading the effort to create the system, as opposed to making yourself susceptible to the ups and downs of state, which will always be there, by relying on the intermittent feeding of yourself with willpower. Like, front-load it. Front-load it and create the systems. Russ Roberts: How did you come to that insight? I think you're right. I'm 70; I'm older than you. I just figured this out about a month ago because I saw somebody write something like that. I thought, 'Ah, that's a good point.' Yeah. Rather than say, 'Why don't I not use my phone that much,' maybe I should put it in the other room. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Russ Roberts: Just as a trivial example of this. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Russ Roberts: How did you come to that? Experience, or somebody told you and you thought, 'Hey, that makes sense'? Tim Ferriss: I would say that a lot of it comes from competitive sports. If you look at any, any athletes or coaches who are consistently winning, doing well, they will follow this to a T, for sure. And there's some adapting, of course, depending on recoverability, etc. But, there are plans; you execute the plan; and that's it. Certainly, if you get injured and so on, you have to make accommodations and adapt. But, when I was starting my own business and reading all these business books, and for better and for worse, a lot of the process-focused books, at least at the time that I read, had manufacturing examples. It's like: Okay, if you're looking at the Toyota way, or you're looking at any of these things: process, process, process. System, system, system. And then when I was writing The Four-Hour Workweek and looking at how different people have implemented Pareto's law, or the 80/20 principle, and looking at somewhat satirical, but also actually surprising practical things like Parkinson's Law, it's, like: Okay, as you add all of these things together, it just seems more and more that systems, systems, systems are, in a way, a big investment in the beginning that make everything else less energetically, financially, emotionally expensive over time. And, I think I also just have a personality that likes-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, ya' think?-- Tim Ferriss: to try--yeah, exactly--that strives for anything that can be 'set it and forget it.' Russ Roberts: Yeah. Tim Ferriss: Anything that can be 'set it and forget it,' I'm going to prefer. Look, you're, like: 'Oh, I forgot to meet with my therapist. Oh, I should really reach out.' It's, like: Why don't you just prepay so that you have the proper sunk cost? Use sunk cost to your advantage: prepay, standing meeting every Thursday. You miss it, you pay for it. Boom, problem solved. 1:34:21 Russ Roberts: When I was a little boy--I think I was probably 10--my parents had friends--we were living in Lexington, Massachusetts, and we had friends, I don't even know where they lived. They probably lived in some place like Gloucester. To my mind, it was a very long ride. And we drove 40 minutes to an hour to get to these folks; and they lived in a house that I would have to sit in for three hours. They were old: I think they were probably 60 or 70. They seemed to be about 250. And, I hated it. I just dreaded going. And we'd go there, and we'd eat a meal. They were very nice people, by the way: they had befriended, or I think their kids had befriended my parents when we were living in Iowa where my dad was getting his Master's degree. And, the husband of this couple, this elderly couple, had a rule. And the rule was he only had one plate of food. Now, I just want to say, when I was in Venice I took a picture of someone who was having one beer. It was the largest beer stein I've ever seen. It was probably 48 ounces. My dad used to joke sometimes--I'd say, 'Dad, how many beers did you have?' He'd say, 'One.' I'm thinking, 'How big was the glass, Dad?' And so, when you say you're only going to have one plate, there is a certain ambiguity about it. But, he would only have one plate of food--meaning he would not take seconds. And, as a ten-year-old, and even as a--beginning my early interest in rationality--I thought, 'This man is a moron. Why would you have a rule that constrictive?--I mean, restrictive. It's absurd. He's a fool.' Now I look back, and I think, 'He's a genius.' I'm thinking of that. I mean, that rule, other than the embarrassment of how high I would have to pile the food if I implemented that rule--which is one of the problems with systems, there's a certain leeway--I think he was a very wise man. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yep. I know the feeling. I'm looking back and being, like, 'Oh my God, that idiot was a genius.' Yeah. I'll throw this out there for people who might be interested, just one of the--at least initially what I thought was strangest patterns that I've observed among really a lot of the highest performing, let's just say, 50-plus males--I've not seen this in women, for whatever reason--on my podcast, after 800 of these things, is skipping breakfast. A lot of them skip breakfast. Russ Roberts: I know. I don't eat breakfast. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, there you go. And, I've also, just in the last--because my family has a lot of metabolic syndrome, and diabetes, and cardiac issues, or cardiovascular issues, which are pretty interrelated--so I've been, only for the last month, doing 16:8 intermittent fastings. So, eating within an eight-hour window, so typically like 2:00PM to 10:00PM, let's just say. And, my lab work--and this is not limited to me, and there's some pretty good data on this--but is the most immaculate it has ever been. Even after, or just after, four weeks of doing this, my oral glucose tolerance test and my stability, looking at glucose metabolism, and so on, insulin sensitivity, I suppose--fascinating. So, interesting. So, now, I just turned 48, and I'm like, 'You know what? I think it's time to skip breakfast,' at least for a while. Russ Roberts: You might wait until you turn 50. But, I'll tell you on the breakfast thing, as soon as someone tells me it's the most important meal of the day, that's just Reason Number Two not to eat it. I mean, there's nothing that bothers me more than that attempt to browbeat me with an empty scientific fact that's not true. Like, what would the evidence for that be, other than people who grow eggs? Tim Ferriss: There are so many of those, right? Like: Drink eight--in fact, what is it? Russ Roberts: Yeah, eight-- Tim Ferriss: Eight cups of water a day. Russ Roberts: Eight glasses a day, 10,000 steps. Tim Ferriss: It's like: Where is that from? I mean, and some of these are just like, okay, they're helpful because they get you to stay hydrated. But some of the stuff you hear--you only use 10% of your brain? There's no evidence for that. Zero. Why would you be so evolutionarily incompetent to have just this empty luggage that you're dragging around? That's not true. Russ Roberts: The 10,000 steps a day thing is a total fraud. There's nothing to it. However, I am extremely excited--I have fooled myself--and I pretend that it's important; and I think it's good for me. That's my process trick-- Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Oh, for sure. Russ Roberts: to try to take 10,000 steps a day, even though I know it is scientifically meaningless. Because otherwise I would take none-- Tim Ferriss: Yeah, exactly. Russ Roberts: or maybe 12 back and forth to the 'fridge. Tim Ferriss: I have to imagine movement is meaningful. Russ Roberts: I think so. I'm good with that. 1:39:50 Russ Roberts: Now, shifting gears again, you have a new project-- Tim Ferriss: I do-- Russ Roberts: which is surprising when I heard about it. It's a game. It's called Coyote . Why did you do this, and what kind of a game is it? Tim Ferriss: Oh, why? Russ Roberts: I have tried it. I have tried it because I wanted to prep for the interview. But I want to hear from you, what is the idea of it, and why is Tim Ferriss producing-- Tim Ferriss: A game-- Russ Roberts: this kind of game? Tim Ferriss: There are a number of reasons for it. So, every few years I like to try a project--I tend to view my life in terms of six to 12-month projects--that is completely off-menu. So, after the first book, Angel Investing , was that for a while, and that ended up sticking. And then, after the third book, which just about killed me, I decided podcasting. I'll do 10 episodes, see what happens. That was the experiment. And, that became a thing, apparently. Russ Roberts: That stuck. Tim Ferriss: That stuck. And, I used to use the blog for this, but I use the podcast to also dip my toe into different worlds to see, 'Is this energy in or energy out? Does this get me excited? What are these people like? Oh, interesting. This person is actually very, very, very fascinating, very soulful, and I think I could be friends with them.' And, one such person was Elan Lee of Exploding Kittens. I had him on the podcast. He's created dozens of mega-hit games. He worked on the first Xbox and Halo, and stuff, but he's also invented whole genres of gaming. Amazing guy, and his team at Exploding Kittens is just incredible. And, the name of the company is referring to their still-hit game, Exploding Kittens , which at one point I think was the largest Kickstarter of all time. Mega-, mega-successful. And, part of the reason this grabbed my attention as a subject area--first, I grew up playing games. I still have all my original Dungeons & Dragons stuff, literally downstairs from where I'm sitting. And, games were really, really meaningful to me when I was a little runt kid, nerd, because I didn't feel safe on the playground. And, the way I developed social skills, deepened my friendships, was with games. And, part of the reason for the timing for me with making a game--I've always wanted to do it--but if you look at The Anxious Generation , Jonathan Haidt type-of-stuff, if you look at recent articles from The Atlantic looking at social interactions and planned social outings, I think the rough approximation was one in every 25 households have some type of in-person social gathering planned any given weekend in the United States. And the decline is precipitous if you look at, say, the last 10 to 15 years. If I look at the digital malaise and chronic anxiety in my audience--which is very palpable--and also nihilism over time, I feel like screen time and digital can be so compelling and so useful, but the dose makes the poison. And, a lot of these issues are directly related to too much screen time, fixating at something that's 18 inches away from your face all day long. Very little real, in-person, analog, social interaction. So I wanted to create a fast game that's fun, entertaining, makes the players entertaining; hopefully hilarious. I have seen enough footage that I think it can be very hilarious. We play-tested the hell out of this thing. And, it's 10 minutes. It's something that is a light lift for people getting their foot back in the door for in-person social interaction that is analog. And, that's not me being a Luddite. I am heavily involved with tech. I am still angel investing and advising startups. I'm really involved with this stuff. And, I think that for that reason, I, in a sense, much like people who work at these companies have been canaries in the coal mine: I am, like, 'Look, guys, problems are coming and they're going to be big. They're going to be very serious. And, you need to offset that some way.' So, also, as someone who has just been involved with mental health therapeutics for so long, I'm, like: Sure, you can take drugs. Sure, you can use something like accelerated TMS [Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation], which is a type of brain stimulation. Sure, there are all these other tools. But, maybe part of the answer is a lot simpler. It's, like: Do what we're evolved to do. Spend time with people. And, I think games are a great way to do that, so that's why Coyote is everywhere now. Russ Roberts: We'll talk about the game itself in a second--and I tested it with my staff to prep for this, doing my homework--but I'm curious about the actual process. Tim Ferriss: Sure. Yeah. Russ Roberts: How did that work? How much was brainstorming? How much was a prototype that you rejected? I'm just curious about how that process worked. And then, you can tell me if you think this is going to be like podcasting: Are you going to do more? or are you going to--it's just a one-off? Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Okay. So let me start with the beginning of that question. Game development--I choose my projects also based on how much I'm going to learn, what types of skills I'm going to develop, and the relationships I'm going to develop. With the assumption that even if any project fails, if those things can snowball over time and transfer to other areas, that that is intrinsically really valuable. And, that's worked out so far. So I continue to do things that way. So, part of this was learning about game development and mass retail, and all these other things. This took about two years. And, the vast majority of that was play-testing prototypes, trying to come up with concepts, and rejecting a lot of things. Playing tons of games, doing two to three-day sprints where we're just playing games all day long, prototyping different things. And, because I am not hiding behind a company name--much like, if Simon & Schuster puts out X number of books per year, well, the people--let's just say the head of publicity within an imprint at Simon & Schuster, their personal reputation is not on the line with their name on the front of the book for all of those books. But, if you're the author , it matters a lot. You're going to have to live with that book forever. So for me to put my name on something else, I felt like I had to be excited to stand by this thing and talk about it, and to live with it for a very long time. So, to get to a game concept--the kernel of an idea--or a game mechanic that I felt like I could really double and triple down on, that took at least a year. Which is, I would say, not that crazy. Some people figure out games quickly, but some games--you look at like Settlers of Catan or any of these--they could take a really long time to figure out. And then, from that point, we were out--I remember we were in Toronto. I was walking around with Elan Lee and Ken, who is a spectacular game designer, drinking tons of coffee in the sun, just spitballing ideas, ideas, ideas. And then, I threw out one idea, which was basically like a Rock-Paper-Scissors on steroids that you could play as a group. What might that look like? Because I want to expand the question of what games have I liked, what games have they liked, to--or I should say tabletop games--to expand it to what types of games of any type have you enjoyed? And, we started playing with that. And within, I would say, an hour--we had headed back to this Airbnb where we had a kitchen table and decks of blank cards. And, we just unpacked these markers and started making cards and playing the game. As we thought of it in our initial conception. It didn't work. But there was this tiny seed of something. So, tossed a bunch of cards, scratched out a bunch of other ones, and literally just prototyped the very, very, very basic way this could work in a couple of hours of sitting at the table with blank decks of cards and markers. And then, from there--I mean, I could go step by step--but there's a lot of play-testing. Just figuring out the deck composition: This card deck has 66 cards; ten of them are blank because I want to invite everybody to become a game designer, which is shockingly easy if you do it within [inaudible 01:49:10] context of Coyote and a couple of blank cards. But, just winnowing down the, let's call it, 300 different card options to the right ratios and the right number of cards so that you would have a, let's just call it, a balanced deck where statistically certain cards show up with certain predictability is shockingly complicated. It is shockingly complicated. So, to create a simple game can be just as hard, if not harder, than coming up with very, quote-unquote, "sophisticated"--they are sophisticated--complex games. Yeah, it's been a hell of a journey. And then, also figuring out how do you put this thing at mass retail? Learning to navigate the Targets or Walmarts of the world is its own education. Russ Roberts: Yeah, I think it's going to do okay. It's very inexpensive, which is interesting. I was surprised at how inexpensive it is, I think it's-- Tim Ferriss: Yeah, $9.99. Russ Roberts: $12.99 on Amazon-- Tim Ferriss: $12.99 on Amazon and then $9.99-- Russ Roberts: which includes shipping, if you have Prime. 1:50:22 Russ Roberts: So, give us a rough idea of what the game is. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah, I think the game is going to do well. I mean, it has 300 million plus social views of gameplay so far, so I do think it's going to do well. People are enjoying it. But, the way the game works is you have this deck of cards, sit around a table--and we can talk about this also--but it's age 10 or up. I think younger kids can play it, too. Three to eight players, let's say. And, the backbone of the game is these action cards. You deal out these cards that are pictures of salamanders making these various gestures with a word. So you might have someone holding an index finger at their nose, and 'mustache'--that's the word that you would say. Or you might have something like 'moose', where you're putting your hands on either side of your head and making yourself look like a moose, and you say 'moose.' And, the simplest form of the game is: as these cards are put out in a lineup, you go around clockwise, and each person performs one of these gestures, and they say the word at the same time. And, you're keeping a rhythm like We Will Rock You from Queen, like 'Boom, boom, moose. Boom, boom, mustache. Boom, boom, whatever.' Okay. So, so far, so boring, right? Okay, fine. And, some of the gestures are more entertaining than others. Russ Roberts: Yes, they are. Tim Ferriss: So, you might have to lean and make a fart noise or something like that, which I got to tell you--cheap applause--it always works. Russ Roberts: I mentioned to my staff we would take that card out, but there was a revolt. We had to keep the card in. Tim Ferriss: There were also cards that I had to remove, much to my protest because-- Russ Roberts: Tim, this is a G-rated program, so just-- Tim Ferriss: Yeah, yeah. Russ Roberts: be careful. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, exactly. No, exactly. So, there were cards I had to remove. I didn't think they were that controversial, but if you want to have them at mass retail, certain rules must be followed. So, you get it. You're going around, keeping a rhythm. Everybody has to keep the beat. They have to do the gesture and say the word at the same time. All right. Then you have these Coyote cards, so named because of trickster mythology and the associations that coyote has in a lot of different cultures, much like Iktomi, or spider, and others, or raven. I mean, they're low-key. There are different trickster gods in many, many different mythologies. Coyote happens to be a very North American--it's a very American thing and just a fascinating animal, too. Anyway, you have these Coyote cards and attack cards. The Coyote cards you can play, which modify the game in some bizarre way. So, you might have to skip a player, you might have to beat the table three times instead of two, you might have to duplicate a card. It all makes it harder, which is why the Trojan horse on this game is I wanted to create something that was a great workout for your brain. And, I may actually try to run a scientific study on this game at some point in the not-too-distant future. I've already talked to some researchers about it--brain training. But you don't sell it that way. Like, it's got to be just fun for the sake of being fun. So, the Coyote cards mix things up and make things harder. And, then the attack cards you can use to attack other players and make their game harder. The reason that's relevant is if you're playing competitively, each player gets three lives, and the last person standing wins. That's it. So, if you mess up--if you beat the wrong way, if you do the wrong card, if you say the wrong thing, if you take too long--you lose a life. And, the last person standing wins, that's it. Takes 10 minutes or something like that, maybe less. And, you're in control of how hard you make the game, as the players. You can also play collaboratively, which just means it's all of the players versus the game. So, if you have someone who is a particularly sore loser--I'm thinking one of my friends who is a former Olympic competitor-- so bad, oh my God, he's so bad. He just gets so petulant and pouty, it's unbelievable. Then maybe you play cooperatively. Russ Roberts: It's so immature to care who wins. I don't get that at all. Do you? Do you get that? I don't get it. Tim Ferriss: Oh-oh. I'm very, very, very competitive. I'm a pretty-- Russ Roberts: I mean, occasionally I'll let my wife win a word game we play together, just because, out of familial well-being; but I really don't care. And she says she doesn't care either, by the way, which is interesting. Tim Ferriss: I heard this apocryphal story--I don't know if it's true, but I hope it's true--that Peter Thiel, famous entrepreneur, investor, etc., who likes playing chess. And he was playing chess with someone, and he lost. And he just swiped all the pieces off the board. And, his opponent said, 'Peter, you're a really sore loser.' And, he says, 'Show me a good loser, and I'll show you a loser.' And, I don't-- Russ Roberts: Yeah. I think it was Vince Lombardi who said, 'If it's not whether you win or lose but how you play the game, why do you keep score?' Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Right, right. Russ Roberts: I'm pretty competitive. Tim Ferriss: Yeah. Yeah. So, the competitive version of the game is my favorite way of playing. There's a lot more smack talking. And, the attack cards are fun to play with. Now, this ties into the game development. Why did the attack cards exist? They didn't originally exist. The attack cards exist because, in the process of having this game play-tested with whatever it was, 100-plus families, and with friends and my employees--I had everybody play-test this thing--we realized very quickly that there are certain people, much like with any game, who are very, very, very good at this game. And, mathematicians, musicians, slaughter people. And, if the same person wins all the time, that is boring. At least for me, I don't want to play that game. And, I wanted to make it a game--and this was actually one of the criteria from the very outset--that's closer to Backgammon than chess. Right? It's not a game of complete information. Or maybe poker, closer to poker than chess. Where, someone who is a new player or not as good still has the chance to win. They still have a chance to win. And, that's why we have the attack cards, so people can handicap the strongest players. Russ Roberts: So, I want to just say, I played it with three of my staff to see how it would play, and I had seen some of the videos online where people were laughing and hooting it up and just getting goofy. And, I thought, 'Well, that's not going to happen to me.' But, it did. So, I will tell you, Tim, we laughed a lot. And, I also want to add that I let one of my colleagues win rather than winning myself. Tim Ferriss: Very generous. Russ Roberts: It was just for staff morale. But the other piece of this that I think is kind of interesting, as a work environment or a family experience--and we only played it once, so I think it would be even stronger if you played it many times--how many gestures are there in the game, roughly? Tim Ferriss: If I had to guess, I should know this, but it's probably around 15 or 20-- Russ Roberts: That's what I would think. Tim Ferriss: because they're color-coded. And so, there's-- Russ Roberts: Yeah, I'd say it's 20. Fifteen to 20 sounds right. Most of those gestures are standard. There's hello, and then there's jazz hands, where you flick your hands in the air. What's interesting about it as a staff activity is that you can then riff on it after the game's over. You can use some of those gestures with each other, and it's kind of sweet. So, I'm not a big game player. It was not relaxing for me because, spoiler, I am competitive. And, if I just said, 'We'll see how it goes.' So, it is a brain workout. It's a little like rubbing your stomach and patting your head while whistling, and then probably keeping a soccer ball in the air, as the game goes on. Tim Ferriss: As it goes on, yeah. 1:59:09 Russ Roberts: Yeah. So, let's close. I want to close with something you've sort of alluded to already, which is: a number of times you've talked about yourself as a monkey or us as monkeys on a rock. When I went back and looked at the episode of your show where you interviewed me, yeah--I remember, it was about my book, Wild Problems . And yet the video of it was titled Journey to Transcendence . And, in the course of that interview, besides talking about my father's death and his impact on me, and what kind of a parent he was, we talked about prayer, we talked about my Jewish practices. It was really a very wide-ranging, and not surprisingly, a very nice conversation. But I was surprised that's what you called it. You didn't call it Wild Problems . You didn't call it The Decisions that Define Us , which is the subtitle of my book--part of it. You called it a Journey to Transcendence . And, what I want to close with is, is there anything transcendent in your life? If you think of yourself as a monkey on a rock, not very transcendent. Do you have moments or ways that you tap into, some sources of meaning, which again, you pretended like, it's like, 'Oh yeah, on Tuesdays, sometimes I'll run a little farther or faster.' No, you said, 'Yeah, of course.' Meaning, you're trying to find something. Of course, there isn't any. The implication was, of course, there isn't any. Is there anything in your life, practice, habits that gets you in touch with something more like transcendence instead of just being a monkey on a rock? Sorry [inaudible 02:01:13] there. Tim Ferriss: Oh, no, I love it. So, I would say, the short answer is yes, and I'll elaborate on that. I also, I'm not convinced that monkeys are not somehow tuned into the 17th dimension-- Russ Roberts: There you go. Tim Ferriss: just like reading the source code of life. Who knows? We have no idea. So, maybe they're just sitting there with the keys to the kingdom. But, separately, when I was talking about no one knowing the full name of Alexander the Great, which is--of course, there are some people who do; most people do not--one of the greatest conquerors the world has ever known. So, the idea of legacy--I was within the context of legacy, talking about taking oneself too seriously. I think perhaps what I was trying to emphasize there is the impermanence, not necessarily the meaninglessness. For me, I spend quite a lot of time thinking about how to architect awe and a feeling of transcendence into my life. So, two weeks from now, I'm going to be at high altitude in Montana and Idaho doing wilderness survival training, completely offline, no devices. And, nature--immersive nature--for me is one of the places where I feel I encounter those human experiences. And, I think that, as squishy as this might sound, awe and a sense of wonder are deeply therapeutic to the human mind, body, and, dare I say, soul, in ways that we really cannot currently begin to understand. You do see, certainly, in the literature related to, for instance, some of the earlier studies with Principal Investigator Roland Griffiths at Johns Hopkins, and psilocybin as used with patients with terminal cancer or major depressive disorder, the therapeutic effect and durability of the therapeutic effect seemingly directly correlated to how highly they rated themselves on the mystical experience questionnaire, which directly asks questions about meaningfulness, awe, wonder, etc., and not necessarily in those terms. So, I do think about this a lot. I do not subscribe to any Abrahamic religion or anything like that, but I feel like the experience of transcendence, however you get that--whether it's playing the piano, walking down the street, looking at ducks in a pond, writing--is incredibly valuable. Certainly for myself. The more that I am--and, I poke fun, and I talk about the monkey spinning on a rock, I mean, in part because I think it's true. But separately because the more 'I, I, I, me, me, me,' your story is, the thought loops are focused, the more miserable, anxious, and unhappy people tend to be. That's true for me, certainly. And, the broader the vista is, the more diffuse, perhaps, my awareness and the awareness of my awareness, the better everything is. It just seems, at least personally. So, I do spend a lot of time thinking about that. I hesitate to mention it because I think it's overapplied and used in the wrong context, and you can do a lot of damage with psychedelics. But, I will certainly mention that one of the defining characteristics for the stronger psychedelic experience is almost always ineffability. And, that, I do think, is often a gateway experience for people to realize just how powerfully that type of deepening can affect your psyche and your experience of reality. And how you relate to yourself and others. So--did not expect to uncork all of that. But I really do think about transcendence in the context of transcending the self, the experience of a skin-encapsulated ego as actor in an objective reality. I do think about that a lot. Russ Roberts: My guest today has been Tim Ferriss. Tim, thanks for being part of EconTalk. Tim Ferriss: Thanks for having me. Econlib The Library of Economics and Liberty Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA econlib@libertyfund.org About About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Publications Books Articles EconTalk EconLog Videos Resources Quickpicks CEE Encyclopedia College Guides High School Guides Sign up for our newsletter Enter your email address to subscribe to the Econlib monthly newsletter. » Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA info@libertyfund.org © 2024 Econlib, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Part of the Liberty Fund Network.