# [EconTalk] The Past and Future of AI (with Dwarkesh Patel)

**Source**: https://www.econtalk.org/the-past-and-future-of-ai-with-dwarkesh-patel/
**Atlas ID**: 223257
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.144017

---

The Past and Future of AI (with Dwarkesh Patel) - Econlib Liberty Fund Network Econlib Liberty Fund OLL Adam Smith Works Law & Liberty EconLog Blog Browse by Author Browse by Topic Browse by Date Search EconLog RSS Subscribe EconTalk Latest Episodes Browse by Date Browse by Guest Browse by Category Browse Extras Search EconTalk RSS Feeds Articles Latest Articles Liberty Classics Browse by Author Browse by Date Search Articles Books Books Bios Books by Date Books by Author Search Books Encyclopedia Index Browse by Author Browse by Title Biographies Search Encyclopedia Guides Index #ECONLIBREADS College Topics High School Topics Subscribe to QuickPicks Search Guides Videos Index Search Videos Liberty Fund Network Econlib OLL Adam Smith Works Library of Law & Liberty Home / The Past and Future of AI (with Dwarkesh Patel) Apr 28 2025 Dwarkesh Patel interviewed the most influential thinkers and leaders in the world of AI and chronicled the history of AI up to now in his book, The Scaling Era . Listen as he talks to EconTalk's Russ Roberts about the book, the dangers and potential of AI, and the role scale plays in AI progress. The conversation concludes with a discussion of the art of podcasting. LISTEN NOW: Comment ● READ TRANSCRIPT ● DELVE DEEPER 18 DOWNLOAD RELATED EPISODE Matt Ridley on How Innovation Works What's the difference between invention and innovation? Could it be that innovation--the process of making a breakthrough invention available, affordable, and reliable--is actually the hard part? In this week's EconTalk episode, author Matt Ridley talks about his book How Innovation... EXPLORE MORE Related EPISODE Ian Leslie on Being Human in the Age of AI When OpenAI launched its conversational chatbot this past November, author Ian Leslie was struck by the humanness of the computer's dialogue. Then he realized that he had it exactly backward: In an age that favors the formulaic and generic to... EXPLORE MORE Browse our archive of 800+ episodes containing over ten years of podcasts Explore audio transcript, further reading that will
                    help you delve deeper into this week’s episode, and
                    vigorous conversations in the form of our comments
                    section below. READER COMMENTS READ COMMENT POLICY Adam Apr 28 2025 at 3:52pm Regarding the “lost pleasure” of Russ’s granddaughter, I think we need to make a distinction. I would not want to live in the year 1000, but it is still possible to read the thoughts of people from that time with great pleasure. Pleasures come and go as social conditions change, but what unifies us with Plato and Sophocles, such that we can still read them and feel like they have something to say to us? It is the moral, political, and psychological questions that have remained constant, or constant enough anyway. To me the question is, will future people still orient themselves by what they take to be the true, the beautiful, and the good; and then struggle with the resulting uncertainties and paradoxes? If yes, then they and us will remain part of some kind of continuum. If not, then the future is on the other side of a wall those of us living now can’t cross. Good luck to whatever kinds of creatures are over there. Ajit Kirpekar Apr 28 2025 at 5:43pm I wanted to make a few comments regarding AI that weren’t discussed in the episode: I think the transformer architecture wasn’t hailed quite enough for what it did for the industry. Before it was written and since, there are thousands and thousands of papers being published in ML. No one paper upended the industry like it did. It fundamentally changed how Natural Language Processing is done – effectively replacing all other algorithms that came before it. Its as if before it arrived, people were trying 4-100 different types of models based on the type of problem. In one fell swoop – it became the defacto architecture. The genius of the transformer partially lies on the compute side of things(which the guest touched on), but completely. The other side of its brilliance is the fact that it can model very long sequences in a way where things from the very distance past that have relevance on stuff today can still be incorporated. Think of a sequence from T0….Tn. In past models, by the time you got to sequence Tn+1, T0 was just long forgotten even if it had relevant influences. People were aware of this problem and tried to find variants on the existing ML models to address this issue. They mostly failed. The transformer largely succeeded through something called an attention head( I won’t go further into that). Russ starts to talk about the philosophical nature of AI and how it might replace human cognition and creativity. Those are fair concerns, but I don’t think that will happen within this architecture and the reasons why are actually baked into the technical aspects of how it works. I will try to summarize it here: Models begin as large pretrained creations. They essentially scrape all the text from the web and build out the basic semantic relationships between words. The next phase is called fine-tuning. This phase tries to build on the pretrained model by feeding in high quality data. Think of peer reviewed journal articles, well written academic tutorials; high quality medical information, etc etc. This is quite expensive to obtain. A final layer is called the Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback. It basically uses some humans to rank order the quality of a returned result from the fine tuned model. Then, a Reinforcement Learning algorithm attempts to generate results with feedback that ensures we get good results. The critical limits of this architecture when it comes to cognition is really coming out of 3. In principle, the Reinforcement Learning part allows the machine to explore new ideas and gives a semblance of creativity where the prior two parts were semi brute force learning of human text. But in reality, this algorithm is still very much anchored by the quality of the fine tuned model. By that I mean; because RL by itself tends to wander around and give non-nonsensical results, it is output is tethered directly to the base language model – forcing it to explore only a certain region of space. That essentially limits its creativity even as it is still allowed to explore. The other part is – Reinforcement Learning learns from human measurement and does well for things that have a proper ranking of quality. Think mathematical proofs or computer code. It does less well for things that have much more amorphous definitions of quality or contexts. Think of poetry or a speech for the right audience or even deeper meanings of philosophy. Dan K Apr 28 2025 at 10:29pm Today and everything that will follow has its beginnings in Prometheus’s theft of fire from the gods. Fire is technology and we are a different species — bigger brains, smaller gut, and smaller jaws just to name a few — because of the ability to cook our food. Every human after fire is a transhuman. Socrates bemoaned the use of writing and books because he thought it promoted lazy thinking and worse memory, which echoes our current conversation around phones. Maybe he was right and maybe phones are rotting our brains, and maybe AI will take a part of our humanity away. But perhaps it just one more step in a long continuum of reinvention in the face of uncertainty. That being said, as an English teacher I still am at a loss of how to grapple with Chat GPT in the classroom. I want to find the juste milieu between recognizing the reality of LLMs but also impressing upon by students the importance of doing the work on their own. But truth be told.. I am using Chat GPT all the time and the irony of me scolding my students for using Chat GPT on my assignments that I wrote with Chat GPT is not lost on me. Luckily I am young(ish) and new to the field of teaching, so while it feels like a big problem, it also an exciting one to navigate. I really enjoyed the later half of the podcast where you both talked about the craft of podcasting. Don’t change a thing Russ you are one of a kind and are one of my favorite parts of Monday. Gregg Tavares Apr 29 2025 at 3:42am It’s always frustrating to me when someone says LLMs/Transformers whatever, have passed the Turing Test. Nothing has passed the Turing Test! Stop the exaggeration! The Turing Test requires a computer to come across is indistinguishable from a human via text communication with no limits on what you’re allowed to ask it. LLMs still fail all kinds of simple questions that easily make it clear they aren’t human. Here is ChatGPT 4o Q: Alice has 9 brothers and she also has 7 sisters. How many sisters does Alice’s brother have? A: Alice has 7 sisters. Since Alice is one of the sisters, her brothers also have the same 7 sisters (including Alice). So, each brother has 7 sisters. Answer: 7. Wrong: If Alice have 7 sisters, then her brothers have those 7 + Alice. 8 sisters. It’s easy to trip up an LLM. They’re great for many things and I use them daily but no, they have no passed the Turing Test. Luke J Apr 29 2025 at 11:29am I don’t know think this example demonstrates a failed Turing Test. Plenty of humans will wrongly answer riddles like these. That a computer failed in the likeness of a human counters your argument Sylvain Ribes Apr 29 2025 at 2:45pm From March this year : https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23674 In a controlled setup in a faceup match vs a human, GPT4.5 was judged to be human 73% of the time, only 27% for the actual human. I’m not sure it makes sense to keep arguing that they would _not_ pass the Turing test when by most reasonable standards they would. And I feel like your way to trip the LLM actually argues against your point, since I believe most humans would themselves fail this question at first glance 🙂 Gregg Tavares Apr 29 2025 at 8:13pm Like I said before, ” with no limits “. They limited the interaction to 5 minutes and during that 5 minutes talked to both a human and a bot. So not, they did not pass the Turing Test. I can make the same test here. I’ll limit it to 5 seconds: Tester: Hello Partner 1: Hi Partner 2: Hello Times up! Ok, which was the human and which the bot? 1 or 2? Obviously you can’t tell because you added an artificial limit. 5 minutes, during which the testing has to type means they likely only got a few responses from either, hardly enough time to test. Further, there’s the limit of response time, a bot will spew out a few paragraphs of an answer, a human takes much longer to type. So either you have to slow down the bot, in which case you had even less interactions in those 5 minutes, or you need a speech to text system for the human and hope they’re a fast speaker and the system gets the hard stuff correct like names, which is unlikely. So no, no bot has passed the Turing Test Adam Heironimus May 12 2025 at 4:56pm I copied your prompt into GPT 4.5 and this was its response: “Alice’s brother has 8 sisters. Explanation: Alice has 7 sisters, plus herself, which makes 8 girls in total. Therefore, each of her brothers has 8 sisters, including Alice.” Shalom Freedman Apr 29 2025 at 7:59am ‘Where are they?’ Why haven’t all the AI super-minds in the universe already combined in such a way as to already be controlling everything that happens not only on our own little earth but everywhere in all the universe or universes? Why haven’t they already made these short-lived biological beings a small stage of the distant past? Why is that human beings are just coming around to develop now what should have already been developed a non-finite number of times elsewhere in a non-finite number of places in all which has already been? Catherine M Jones Apr 29 2025 at 9:45am A fascinating episode Russ- thank you! K John K Dawson Apr 29 2025 at 2:35pm President Roberts, Another great episode. I really enjoyed your discussion of podcasting. You mentioned finding interesting guests. I suggest Brian Potter author of the Construction Physics Substack would be an excellent fit for an episode. His Substack focuses on the technical difficulty of building things. In particular the lack of productivity gains in the construction industry but many other issues as well (how likely is Boom to be able to produce a supersonic passenger jet for one). On the AI topic, I would be more convinced the AI future is here if self driving cars were actually self driving. Gregg Tavares Apr 30 2025 at 10:09pm Self driving cars are actually self driving. I use Waymo in West Los Angeles all the time. It’s amazing. If you live somewhere where the only example you have is Tesla FSD then I can see how you might come to the conclusion they are here yet. But they are, 1000s of people are using them. On my first ride I was ready to sell my actual car, if only the usage area wasn’t limited. They are working on that though. It would be amazing to be able to take a Waymo to see my mom (1hr 40mins away when there’s no traffic). Sylvain Ribes Apr 29 2025 at 2:53pm I am a fan of both EconTalk and Dwarkesh’s Podcast, so I was thrilled to listen to your conversation. It’s quite amusing to contrast the two of you: Dwarkesh with his youth/SF-coded lexicon and rapid-fire manner of speech versus your more fatherly (dare I say grand-fatherly!), introspective style. The way each of you approaches your respective podcast appears similarly contrasted. In essence, I’d argue he seeks knowledge where you seek wisdom—two sides of the same coin perhaps. Either way, I was delighted by your conversation. Brian Apr 30 2025 at 8:03am Maybe not the year 1000, bot I think you both underestimate how much life in 2925 sucks. I know a lot of people who would prefer to live in 1950. Ashis Roy Apr 30 2025 at 10:29am What about the 7th sense? What about consciousness? What about God? Will AI hives scale up to acquire that 7th sense? Will be able to replicate Gurus and Saints? How will AI scale up to that? Hans Ashlock May 2 2025 at 12:17pm “Why is the universe organized such that if you throw big blobs of compute at a wide enough distribution of data the thing becomes intelligent?”… “The truth is we still don’t know. It’s almost entirely just a [contingent] empirical fact.” Seems to ignore out the most obvious ingredient: “you”, a mind. Every LLM exists because a mind threw compute at data. A mind created the dataset. A mind created the compute. In fact, the mind created compute based on neural nets even though other minds said it wouldn’t work. That’s not a small detail to ignore. I suspect it’s because most AI thinkers think about do not think minds are different from brains. I’m being unkind, that’s not their job. Hopefully this AI era will usher in some fresh new and hopefully well paid thinking from philosophers on the nature of mind, intelligence, and consciousness. Fred Matern May 3 2025 at 8:11pm I’d like to quibble with the idea expressed by the guest that the Aristotelian view of what makes us human — expressed here as the reasoning faculty— is probably the least human thing about us. The Aristotelian view of the soul, I think, comes close to an evolutionary view. We share with all living things a vegetative soul (or nutritive); the sensible soul; and the rational soul. It’s having these three together that makes us human on this old tradition. I think it holds up well against so-called “AI” (I see no evidence that this thing is “intelligent” any more than an abacus is “intelligent.” It’s a tool that we use and I think the last decades of AI research have led us into an anthropomorphizing error. But that’s not my main point here). So, an AGI may eventually approximate the operation of the rational soul or at least part of it. It will not be grounded, however, in a nutritive or sensible soul. I don’t see how a rationalizing machine that is detached from the life-sustaining or sensible-experiencing processes can possibly avoid making serious errors. I suspect that the so-called “hallucinations” of AI are inevitable in a reasoning machine that has no connection to the life-world. In short, I think this Aristotelian tradition that I have not done justice to in this comment needs to be revisited and quite urgently, and not abandoned (as was at least obliquely implied in the interview). Elia May 10 2025 at 12:31pm Minute 30: the problem is NOT  a computer big enough for information or monitoring. The problem is not even the decision maker knows what they truly want until faced with a trade off with consequences. We are back to the socialist calculation debate, which tells me Hayek is still, to this day, deeply misunderstood. Comments are closed. Enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: DELVE DEEPER Watch this podcast episode on YouTube: The Past and Future of AI (with Dwarkesh Patel) . Live-recorded audio and video. This week's guest: Dwarkesh Patel's Home page . Includes the Dwarkesh Podcast and Dwarkesh Substack. Dwarkesh Patel on X . This week's focus: The Scaling Era: An Oral History of AI, 2019–2025, by Dwarkesh Patel. Gavin Leech, ed. Amazon.com. * Additional ideas and people mentioned in this podcast episode: "Dario Amodei (Anthropic CEO) - Scaling, Alignment, & AI Progress." Dwarkesh Podcast, Aug 8, 2023. Matt Ridley on How Innovation Works . EconTalk. "The Pretence of Knowledge," by Friedrich von Hayek . Nobel Prize Lecture, 1974. "On (Not) Feeling the AGI," by Zvi Mowshowitz. Don't Worry About the Vase (Zvi Mowshowitz's substack), Mar 25, 2025. Nick Bostrom episodes on EconTalk Nick Bostrom on Superintelligence . EconTalk, 2014. Purpose, Pleasure, and Meaning in a World Without Work (with Nicholas Bostrom) . EconTalk, 2024. "What fully automated firms will look like," by Dwarkesh Patel. Dwarkesh Podcast Blog, Jan. 31, 2025. A few more readings and background resources: Joseph Schumpeter . Biography. Concise Encyclopedia of Economics. The Music and Magic of John and Paul (with Ian Leslie) . EconTalk. Chuck Klosterman on But What If We're Wrong . EconTalk. Eliezer Yudkowsky Eliezer Yudkowsky on the Dangers of AI . EconTalk. "Eliezer Yudkowsky--Why AI Will Kill Us, Aligning LLMs, Nature of Intelligence, SciFi, & Rationality." Dwarkesh Podcast, Apr. 06, 2023. "Inside the AI Competition That Decoded an Ancient Herculaneum Scroll," by Tomas Weber. Scientific American, March 19, 2024. "David Reich--How One Small Tribe Conquered the World 70,000 Years Ago." Dwarkesh Podcast, Aug 29, 2024. "Joseph Henrich--Why Humans Survived and Smarter Species Didn't." Dwarkesh Podcast, Mar 12, 2025. "Sarah Paine Episode 1: The War For India (Lecture & Interview)." Dwarkesh Podcast, Jan 16, 2025. A few more EconTalk podcast episodes: Adam Mastroianni's EconTalk Archives . John List on Scale, Uber, and the Voltage Effect . EconTalk. Robert Burton on Being Certain . Garry Kasparov vs. Deep Blue, 1997 chess match. EconTalk. Jonathan Haidt on the Righteous Mind . EconTalk. Robert Sapolsky on Determinism, Free Will, and Responsibility . EconTalk. More related EconTalk podcast episodes, by Category: Artificial Intelligence Technology and Information Industry Interviews: Individuals at Work ALL ECONTALK CATEGORIES * As an Amazon Associate, Econlib earns from qualifying purchases. AUDIO TRANSCRIPT Time Podcast Episode Highlights 0:37 Intro. [Recording date: March 25, 2025.] Russ Roberts: Today is March 25th, 2025, and my guest is podcaster and author, Dwarkesh Patel. You can find him on YouTube, at Substack at Dwarkesh.com. He is the author with Gavin Leech of The Scaling Era: An Oral History of AI, 2019-2025 , which is our topic for today, along with many other things, I suspect. Dwarkesh, welcome to EconTalk. Dwarkesh Patel: Thanks for having me on, Russ. I've been a fan, I was just telling you, for ever since--I think probably before I started my podcast, I've been a big fan, so it's actually really cool to get to talk to you. Russ Roberts: Well, I really appreciate it. I admire your work as well. We're going to talk about it some. 1:17 Russ Roberts: You start off saying, early in the book--and I should say, this book is from Stripe Press, which produces beautiful books. Unfortunately, I saw it in PDF [Portable Document Format] form; but it was pretty beautiful in PDF form, but it's I'm sure even nicer in its physical form. You say, 'We need to see the last six years afresh--2019 to the present.' Why? What are we missing? Dwarkesh Patel: I think there's this perspective in the popular conception of AI [artificial intelligence], maybe even when researchers talk about it, that the big thing that's happened is we've made these breakthroughs and algorithms. We've come up with these big new ideas. And that has happened, but the backdrop is just these big-picture trends, these trends most importantly in the buildup of compute, in the buildup of data--even these new algorithms come about as a result of this sort of evolutionary process where if you have more compute to experiment on, you can try out different ideas. You wouldn't have known beforehand why the transformer works better than the previous architectures if you didn't have more compute to play around with. And then when you look at: then why did we go from GPT-2 to GPT-3 to GPT-4 [Generative Pre-trained Transformer] to the models we're working with now? Again, it's a story of dumping in more and more compute. Then that raises just a bunch of questions about: Well, what is the nature of intelligence such that you just throw a big blob of compute at wide distribution of data and you get this agentic thing that can solve problems on the other end? It raises a bunch of other questions about what will happen in the future. But, I think that trend of this 4X-ing [four times] of compute every single year, increasing in investment to the level we're at hundreds of dollars now at something which was an academic hobby a decade ago, is the missed trend. Russ Roberts: I didn't mention that you're a computer science major, so you know some things that I really don't know at all. What is the transformer? Explain what that is. It's a key part of the technology here. Dwarkesh Patel: So, the transformer is this architecture that was invented by some Google researchers in 2018, and it's the fundamental architectural breakthrough behind ChatGPT and the kinds of models that you play around with when you think about an LLM [large language model]. And, what separates it from the kinds of architectures before is that it's much easier to train in parallel. So, if you have these huge clusters of GPUs [Graphics Processing Units], a transformer is just much more practicable to scale than other architectures. And that allowed us to just keep throwing more compute at this problem of trying to get these things to be intelligent. And then the other big breakthrough was to combine this architecture with just this really naive training process of: Predict the next word. And you wouldn't have--now, we just know that this is how it works, and so we're, like, 'Okay? Of course, that's how you get intelligence.' But it's actually really interesting that you predict the next word in Wikitext, and as you make it bigger and bigger, it picks up these longer and longer patterns, to the point where now it can just totally pass a Turing Test, can even be helpful in certain kinds of tasks. Russ Roberts: Yeah, I think you said it gets "intelligent." Obviously that was a--you had quotes around it. But maybe not. We'll talk about that. At the end of the first chapter, you say, "This book's knowledge cut-off is November, 2024. This means that any information or events occurring after that time will not be reflected." That's, like, two eons ago. Dwarkesh Patel: That's right. Russ Roberts: So, how does that affect the book in the way you think about it and talk about it? Dwarkesh Patel: Obviously, the big breakthrough since has been inference scaling, models like o1 and o3, even DeepSeek's reasoning model. In an important way, it is a big break from the past. Previously, we had this idea that pre- training, which is just making the models bigger--so if you think like GPT-3.5 to GPT-4--that's where progress is going to come from. It does seem that that alone is slightly disappointing. GPT-4.5 was released and it's better but not significantly better than GPT-4. So, the next frontier now is this: How much juice can you get out of trying to make these smaller models--train them towards a specific objective? So, not just predicting internet text, but: Solve this coding problem for me, solve this math problem for me. And how much does that get you--because those are kinds of verifiable problems where you know the solution, you just get a see if the model can get that solution. Can we get some purchase on slightly harder tasks, which are more ambiguous, probably the kind of research you do, or also the kinds of tasks which are--just require a lot of consecutive steps? The model still can't use a computer reliably, and that's where a lot of economic value lies. To automate remote work, you actually got to do remote work. So, that's the big change. Russ Roberts: I really appreciate you saying, 'That's the kind of research you do.' The kind of research I do at my age is what is wrong with my sense of self and ego that I still need to do X, Y, Z to feel good about myself? That's the kind of research I'm looking into. But I appreciate--I'm flattered by your presumption that I was doing something else. 6:48 Russ Roberts: Now, I have become enamored of Claude. There was a rumor that Claude is better with Hebrew than other LLMs. I don't know if that's true--obviously because my Hebrew is not good enough to verify that. But I think if you ask me, 'Why do you like Claude?' it's an embarrassing answer. The typeface is really--the font is fantastic. The way it looks on my phone is beautifully arrayed. It's a lovely visual interface. There are some of these tools that are much better than others for certain tasks. Do we know that? Do the people in the business know that and do they have even a vague idea as to why that is? So, I assume, for example, some might be better at coding, some might better at more deep research, some might better at thinking and meaning, taking time before answering and it makes a difference. But, for many things that normal people would want to do, are there any differences between them--do we know of? and do we know why? Dwarkesh Patel: I feel like normal people are in a better position to answer that question than the AI researchers. I mean, one question I have is: in the long run, what will be the trend here? So, it seems to me that the models are kind of similar. And not only are they similar, but they're getting more similar over time, where, now everybody's releasing a reasoning model, and they're not only that, they're copying the--when they make a new product, not only do they copy the product, they copy the name of the product. Gemini has Deep Research and OpenAI has Deep Research. You could think in the long run maybe they'd get distinguished. And it does seem like the labs are pursuing sort of different objectives. It seems like a company like Anthropic may be much more optimizing for this fully autonomous software engineer, because that's where they think a lot of the value is first unlocked. And then other labs maybe are optimizing more for consumer adoption or for just, like, enterprise use or something like that. But, at least so far--tell me about your impression, but my sense is they feel kind of similar. Russ Roberts: Yeah, they do. In fact, I think in something like translation, a truly bilingual person might have a preference or a taste. Actually, I'll ask you what you use it for in your personal life, not your intellectual pursuits of understanding the field. For me, what I use it for now is brainstorming: help me come up with a way to think about a particular problem, tutoring. I wasn't sure what transformer was, so I asked Claude what it was. And I've got another example I'll give in a little bit. I use it for translation a lot because I think Claude's much better--it feels better than Google Translate. I don't know if it's better than ChatGPT. Finally, I love asking it for advice on travel. Which is bizarre, that I do that. There's a zillion sites that say, 'The 12 best things to see in Rome,' but for some reason I want Claude's opinion. And, 'Give me three hotels near this place.' I have a trust in it that is totally irrational. So, that's what I'm using it for. We'll come back to what else is important, because those things are nice but they're not important. Particularly. What do you use it for in your personal life? Dwarkesh Patel: Research, because my job as a podcaster is I spend a week or two prepping for each guest and having something to interact with as I am--because you know that you read stuff and it's like you don't get a sense of why is this important? How does this connect to other ideas? Getting a constant engagement with your confusions is super helpful. The other thing is, I've tried to experiment with putting these LLMs into my podcasting workflow to help me find clips and automating certain things like that. They've been, like, moderately useful. Honestly, not that useful. But, yeah, they are huge for research. The big question I'm curious about is when they can actually use the computer, then is that a huge unlock in the value they can provide to me or anybody else? Russ Roberts: Explain what you mean by that. Dwarkesh Patel: So, right now there are just--some labs have rolled out this feature called computer use; but they're just not that good. They can't reliably do a thing like book you a flight or organize the logistics for a happy hour or countless other things like that, right? Which sometimes people use this frame of: These models are at high school level; now they're at college level; now they're a Ph.D. level. Obviously, a Ph.D.--I mean, a high schooler could help you book a flight. Maybe a high schooler especially, maybe not the Ph.D.. Russ Roberts: Yeah, exactly. Dwarkesh Patel: So, there's this question of: What's going wrong? Why can they be so smart in this--I mean, they can answer frontier math problems with these new reasoning models, but they can't help me organize--they can't, like, play a brand new video game. So, what's going on there? I think that's probably the fundamental question that we'll learn over the next year or two, is whether these common-sense foibles that they have, is that sort of intrinsic problem where we're under--I mean, one analogy is, I'm sure you've heard this before--but, like, remember--the sense I get is that when Deep Blue beat Kasparov, there was a sense that, like, a fundamental aspect of intelligence had been cracked. And in retrospect, we realized that actually the chess engine is quite narrow and is missing a lot of the fundamental components that are necessary to, say, automate a worker or something. I wonder if, in retrospect, we'll look back at these models: If in the version where I'm totally wrong and these models aren't that useful, we'll just think to ourselves, there was something to this long-term agency and this coherence and this common sense that we were underestimating. 12:56 Russ Roberts: Well, I think until we understand them a little bit better, I don't know if we're going to solve that problem. You asked the head of Anthropic something about whether they work or not. You said, "Fundamentally, what is the explanation for why scaling works? Why is the universe organized such that if you throw big blobs of compute at a wide enough distribution of data the thing becomes intelligent?" Dario Amodei of Anthropic, the CEO [Chief Executive Officer] said, "The truth is we still don't know. It's almost entirely just a [contingent] empirical fact. It's a fact that you could sense from the data, but we still don't have a satisfying explanation for it." It seems like a large barrier, that unknowing. It seems like a large barrier to making them better at either actually being a virtual assistant--not just giving me advice on Rome but booking the trip, booking the restaurant, and so on. Without that, how are we going to improve the quirky part, the hallucinating part of these models? Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. Yeah. This is a question I feel like we will get a lot of good evidence in the next year or two. I mean, another question I asked Dario in that interview, which I feel like I still don't have a good answer for, is: Look, if you had a human who had as much stuff memorized as these LLMs have, they know basically everything that any human has ever written down, even a moderately intelligent person would be able to draw some pretty interesting connections, make some new discoveries. And we have examples of humans doing this. There's one guy who figured out that, look, if you look at what happens to the brain when there's a magnesium deficiency, it actually looks quite similar to what a migraine looks like; and so you could solve a bunch of migraines by giving people magnesium supplements or something, right? So, why don't we have evidence of LLMs using this unique asymmetric advantage they have to do some intelligent ends in this creative way? There are answers to all these things. People have given me interesting answers, but a lot of questions still remain. 15:05 Russ Roberts: Yeah. Why did you call your book The Scaling Era ? That suggests there's another era coming sooner-ish, if not soon. Do you know what that's going to be? It'll be called something different. Do you know what it'll be called? Dwarkesh Patel: The RL [real life] era? No, I think it'll still be the--so scaling refers to the fact that we're just making these systems, like, hundreds, thousands of times bigger. If you look at a jump from something like GPT-3 to GPT-4 or GPT-2 to GPT-3, it means that you have 100X'd the amount of compute you're using on the system. It's not exactly like that because there's some--over time you find out ways to make the model more efficient as well, but basically, if you use the same architecture to get the same amount of performance, you would have to 100X the compute to go from one generation to the next. So, that's what that referring to, that there is this exponential buildup in compute to go from one level to the next. The big question going forward is whether we'll see this--I mean, we will see this pattern because people will still want to spend a bunch of compute on training the systems, and we're on schedule to get big ramp-ups in compute as the clusters that companies ordered in the aftermath of ChatGPT blowing up are now coming online. Then there's questions about: Well, how much compute will it take to make these big breakthroughs in reasoning or agency or so forth? But, stepping back and just seeing a little forward to AGI-- Russ Roberts: Artificial General Intelligence-- Dwarkesh Patel: That's right. There will become a time when an AGI can run as efficiently as a human brain--at least as efficiently, right? So, a human brain runs on 20 watts. An H100, for example, it takes on the order of 1,000 watts and that can store maybe the weights for one model or something like that. We know it's physically possible for the amount of energy the human brain uses to power a human level intelligence, and maybe it's going to get even more efficient than that. But, before we get to that level, we will build an AGI which costs a Montana's-worth of infrastructure and $100 billion of CapEx, and is clunky in all kinds of weird ways. Maybe you have to use some sort of inference scaling hack. By that, what I mean to refer to is this idea that often you can crack puzzles by having the model think for longer. In fact, it weirdly keeps scaling as you add not just one page of thinking, but 100 pages of thinking, 1,000 pages of thinking. I often wonder--so, there was this challenge that OpenAI solved with these visual processing puzzles called ARC-AGI [Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus for Artificial General Intelligence], and it kept improving up to 5,000 pages of thinking about these very simple visual challenges. And I kind of want to see: what was on page 300? What big breakthrough did it have that made that? But, anyways, so there is this hack where you keep spending more compute thinking and that gives you better output. So, that'll be the first AGI. And we'll build it because it's so valuable to have an AGI that we'll build it the most inefficient way. The first one we will build won't be the most physically efficient one possible. But, yeah. 18:25 Russ Roberts: Can you think of another technology where trial and error turned out to be so triumphant? Now, I did a wonderful interview with Matt Ridley awhile back on innovation and technology. One of his insights--and I don't know if it's his--but one of the things he writes about--I think it's his--is that a lot of times the experts are behind the people who are just fiddling around. He talks about the Wright brothers are just bicycle guys. They didn't know anything about aerodynamics particularly. They just tried a bunch of stuff and until finally they lifted off the ground, is the application of--I don't know if--I think that's close to actually true. Here we have this world where these unbelievably intellectually sophisticated computer scientists are building these extraordinarily complex transformer architectures, and they don't know how they work. That's really weird. If you don't know how they work, the easiest thing to make them better is just do more of what works so far and expect it to eventually cross some line that you might be hoping it will. But, can you think of another technology where the trial and error is such an important part of it alongside the intense intellectual depth of it? It's really quite unusual, I would guess. Dwarkesh Patel: I think most technologies--I mean, I would actually be curious to get your takes on economic history and so forth, but I feel like most technologies probably have this element of individual genius is overrated and building up continuously on the slight improvements. And often, it's not, like, one big breakthrough in the transformer or something. It's, like, you figured out a better optimizer. You figured out better hardware. Right? So, a lot of these breakthroughs are contingent on the fact that we couldn't have been doing the same thing in the 1990s. In fact, people had similar ideas, they just weren't scaled to a level which helped you see the potential of AI back then. But, I do think this is actually a really important question, Russ, because--I mean, the sort of big question here is, not, like, what model do we want to use this year or something? The big question is: Will intelligence feed back on itself; and to what extent will it feed back on itself? And if it does, do we get some sort of superhuman intelligence on the other end? Because, the things are making better models--or something like that? And, there the question is: Okay, can you just have a million super-intelligent AI researchers, a million automated Ilya Sutskevers or Alec Radfords; and they think about, like, what is the architecture of the human brain and how do we replicate that in machines. Or, do you need this sort of evolutionary process, which requires a ton of compute for experiments, which maybe even requires hardware breakthroughs? And, that will still be transformative. Hopefully, at some point, we can talk about this. I am keen to get more economists' takes on the potential of explosive growth and so forth. That's still compatible with a world where it takes more than a year to get an intelligence explosion. But, that is a fundamental question of does intelligence feed back on itself or not? Russ Roberts: Yeah. I think intelligence is a little bit overrated. I'm kind of a skeptic on this. And I also believe that most of the really tough human problems aren't insoluble because we are not smart enough. It's because the world is complicated, and it has nothing to do with intelligence--because there's trade-offs; and the definition of good is not well-defined, or best, or better, even. But I know that puts me in a small, pessimistic camp. I really don't think it matters actually, because we're going to see a lot of these changes. We'll save in real time; we'll see if they work or not. Thinking back to the trial and error, I realized while you were answering the questions like: Isn't this common? I was thinking, well, the pharmaceutical industry has a lot of hit-or-miss wild guesses, and then something works. So, we imagine a day where because of our genetic or biotechnology, we could custom-design pharmaceuticals more effectively, but I think most of--we're not at that day yet. And so there is a lot of that in that industry, in that world. So, maybe it is more common than I think. I don't know. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. I mean, there was--who is that economic historian? Alan Bloom or Robert? Robert Allen, who had the theory of the Industrial Revolution where it happened in Britain first because coal was cheap enough there that you could make these initial first machines that were actually super- inefficient . Where--I think the first steam engine used the pressure from the steam condensing to move the piston back. Whereas, future more efficient machines would push it directly with the steam. So, anyways, the other countries just, at least beforehand, didn't get on this evolutionary stepladder where you make the inefficient machines. The coal is cheap enough. You can just throw coal at it, see if you can get it to work, and then later on you get up the cost curve and you find these improvements and so forth. Similar thing has happened with hardware, with AI, where in the 1990s and the 1980s, people had these ideas about--well, you could do deep learning and you'd have these different architectures. And now we have the compute to actually try out these ideas. And we'll get more and more compute over the next few years. Maybe we should expect an acceleration, but similar trends. Russ Roberts: I'm thinking about Fred Smith. I've told this story before, but the first night of Federal Express, the story goes that there were two packages that were carried by Federal Express and one was Fred Smith sending a birthday present to his mom. So, it didn't start off going gangbusters. After quite some time, they couldn't make payroll and they had to close the doors, except that Fred on his way back from the bankers in Chicago saying no, saw a flight to Reno, went to the roulette wheel and made enough money with his sister's trust fund that he kept that company afloat. And it would be nice to say that Fred understood that this was an inevitable idea, but we know the real reason that he kept going was that he's a human being. He had put his heart and soul into this, and he was not going to give up until every avenue had been pursued. It wasn't a theoretical understanding of the world that allowed him to do that, but something more human, I think. Dwarkesh Patel: Can I try out an idea on you? Russ Roberts: Yeah, sure. Dwarkesh Patel: Part of me thinks--look, this idea of a single super-intelligence because of its ability to think in an armchair and divine how the world works--you know, some people have this idea that, 'Oh, it's going to figure out how to get rid of its political opponents and build a nanobot.' And whether it's persuasion, or some sort of other manipulation, coming up with future technologies all by itself, it'll have this omnipotent effect on the world. Russ Roberts: Yeah. Dwarkesh Patel: Now, I don't buy that , but here's an idea I do buy. If you look at what changed between primates and humans, it was our ability to--Joseph Hendrick has this wonderful book about this--it wasn't just intelligence. It wasn't even mainly intelligence. It was our ability to coordinate with each other, to share knowledge, to accumulate knowledge over generations. Now, when we think about AI, instead of thinking of a single AI, super-intelligent AI, what if we thought about billions of beings who are thinking at superhuman speeds who are able to communicate with each other in a way that a human simply cannot. They can literally share their mind-states with each other. They can distill their insights. They can literally merge; they can copy themselves for arbitrary amounts of time. So if you have a super-skilled worker or who has some tacit knowledge, you can just make arbitrary copies of them for pennies per copy. Fundamentally, you have this much larger population size. And if you believe--a lot of theories of economic growth say that more people means more ideas; and that feeds back on itself. So then, for the same old school economic growth, cultural evolution reasons, this hive mind of AIs actually will be--not as an individual AI, but as a sort of, like, whole economy-wide phenomenon--will just be a total shock and change from the current system. Russ Roberts: Could be. 26:51 Russ Roberts: Let me ask you a question, since I'm going to duck yours. So, I really like my smartphone--an embarrassingly large amount. I recognize that my affection for it is somewhat akin to an addiction, as best as we can define that. I sometimes wonder--and I probably asked this question before on the program--if Steve Jobs were alive, and let's say he thought Jonathan Haidt was right. I'm agnostic on the Jonathan Haidt work, but I do think he's onto something . I do think phones are not so great for kids. And I'm pretty sure they're not so great for adults. I'd ask Steve Jobs, 'Would you like to turn the clock back and not think of this product? It's just a phone. It's not a computer in your pocket. Would you do that?' I think human beings have a lot of trouble with saying, 'Oh, yeah, I guess it's been maybe not a net benefit. I'm uneasy with it.' I think most humans would have trouble doing that. I think they would say, 'Onward and upward.' Similarly, if we had the billion AI agents, or whatever we call them, one of the first questions you might ask them is: 'Do you think it's good for humanity for you to be unleashed?' Forget the incentive--the problem there with self-interest, if that's definable in that world. Could they answer that question? Is that an example--to me of something that intelligence is not really good at? And the fact that they could all be linked together and share their thoughts? You'd have to believe--and this is a very Hayekian point; we'll bring in a little bit of economics here--you'd have to believe that they not only could coordinate their thinking, and not only pull together all the knowledge--which they all share by the way so it's not so different, unlike humans--that they will probably have a very similar database. Are they actually going to be able to forecast the N futures that would exist in different worlds under different policy outcomes? And of course then they'd have to then aggregate the wellbeing, which is literally to me a meaningless question, but you could teach them to do it and they'd be really enthusiastic about it--the people who are in charge of it would be enthusiastic about it. I think about, if you go back to Hayek's Nobel Prize address, he basically says, 'Macroeconomics is unknowable.' Just like you can't know which sports team is going to win tomorrow. On average , one of them might be more likely to win; but if the quarterback of the other team, or the striker of the other team, or the pitcher of the other team got into a fight with his wife the night before. But, in theory, if you really believe the world is deterministic--which I'm agnostic about but skeptical--you'd just know all that, too. Because you'd have the enzymes of the chemical imbalances, and all the data on all these people. And they could actually forecast all these outcomes. That's what I'm skeptical about. Do you think we're going to go in that direction? Dwarkesh Patel: Ultimately, I think not, but let me just lay out the case for somebody who might think that something like this is plausible. Right now, central planning--or this kind of central coordination and forecasting--there's many reasons it doesn't work. But, one of them is: Xi Jingping has the same amount of compute in his brain as every other person in China, right? 10^15 FLOPS [Floating-Point Operations Per Second]. In the future, there could be a scenario where the central power or the coordinator, or whatever, has much more raw compute than the periphery, and also has much greater bandwidth with the periphery. Where, right now, Xi Jingping can only monitor so much as one human. The future versions of him could be, like, you can run a copy of Xi Jingping for pennies per hour. But, you can run mega-Xi Jingping, which is 1000-times bigger and is running at 1000-times faster speed, and has copies of it monitoring every single communication coming out of the CCP [Chinese Communist Party], and every single time that you interact with a CCP website or something, that person--and then they just distill all that back into the central blob, or something. So, that's the case for why its plausible. The reason I still think that this kind of central planning will still not work is--I think this perspective underrates the extent to which the whole world is getting more complicated as a result of AI. So if you took Apple as it exists today, or just, like, a computer, and you're, like, 'Could Apple as it exists today coordinate the--' I don't know, maybe Roman economy was pretty complicated, but the economy of [inaudible 00:31:45, Urech? Orech?]. Maybe you could. Like, maybe the economy of [inaudible 00:31:49, Urech? Orech?] could be coordinated in this way. But, could Apple coordinate the world economy as it exists today? I doubt it. Right? So maybe ASI [artificial super-intelligence] might be able to coordinate the economies that exist today, but not the one where there's also other AGIs who are deployed through the entire economy, who are doing their different things. I think the big worry I have is: Before we get to this decentralized world where every sector has drastically grown and become more complicated, and because higher population size, there's much more specialization--all these new institutions for AIs to coordinate with each other that we figured out for humans, like joint stock corporations, and state capacity, and whatever, whatever that looks like for AIs. There will be a sort of, like, decentralized state where--this has been sort of like, there's an equilibrium. But before we get to that, should we worry about somebody having a big head start? They get the first hive mind. And this hive mind, because the rest of world hasn't adopted AI, is more powerful than the rest of the world combined. That question really comes down to the speed of deployment versus the speed of AI feeding back on itself. And, it's a big debate, and we sort of touched on it before. It's probably the most important debate in the world today. And, it's funny that we don't pay enough attention to it. Russ Roberts: Well, I think one of the reasons we don't is we don't really understand. ASI, by the way, is Artificial Super-Intelligence. I think the reason we don't pay enough attention to it is we don't--it's far away in emotion. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. Russ Roberts: It's not far away in time, perhaps. 33:21 Russ Roberts: But, I want to go back to something you said earlier, just to give you a hard time. We're talking about a leader who has got really high access to a lot of intelligence. I doubt there's a very good correlation between the IQ [intelligence quotient] of, say an American president, and the success of their administration. Now, I think you'd have to argue, 'Well, I know, but that's just human intelligence. This is going to be so far beyond 180 IQ, it'll be like 10,000 IQ. It's not even the same thing!' Again, I like to tease people in this field. It's very related to religious thought. You know, it's like, 'We can't imagine the mind of God, who can see every person, know every thought. Not just here, but in Alpha Centauri as well--if they're in that galaxy far, far away.' And I just--I wonder if that's just wishful thinking. But, you know, it's hard to know. Hard to know. I want to give you a quote from a recent interview I saw. This is from Zvi Mowshowitz's page today. He quotes an interview between Daniel Kokotajlo and Dean Ball. I couldn't see a source where he got this, but we'll link to the Zvi Mowshowitz page if we can. He asked Dean Ball, who is a thinker on AI. He says, 'Can you give some examples of things that AIs will remain worse than the best humans at 20 years from now?'--that they'll be worse at? Dean Ball's answer is fabulous. 'Giving massages,'--I'm not sure he's right there, but okay--'Giving massages, running for president, knowing information about the world that isn't on the internet, performing Shakespeare, tasting food, saying sorry.' Now, that's a nice list. It covers a very wide range of the more glorious--not all of it--but some of the most glorious parts of the human experience. What do you think? Are there going to be things that, 20 years from now, human beings are still--besides those, unless you want to disagree. Can you think of some things that AI is going to struggle to dominate, or are they going to pretty much dominate us all over the board? Dwarkesh Patel: I think 20 years is a long time. Russ Roberts: Yeah, it is. Dwarkesh Patel: I like the sentiment behind that list, but I'd be on board if it was more two years instead of 20. Here's something that's super paradoxical and surprising about the way in which these AIs are getting better. In the 1990s, Hans Moravec--which is actually the first guy who came up with this idea of scaling, that you can predict when human intelligence comes about as a result of how much compute you're using. In fact, in the 1980s, he predicted 2028 as the year in which we get the compute to build a human-level AI. It's in fact a very simple projection, not that far off. We'll see. We'll see, I guess. But, he had this really interesting paradox, which is that when we think about what is hard or what will take a long time to develop as a skill in AIs, we think about what is hard for humans. But, we don't think about the amount of time that evolution has had to spend optimizing a skill. The kinds of skills that evolution has to spend a bunch of time optimizing are just so commonplace that, in the human spectrum, they just don't vary that much. For a billion years, you've been learning how to move around, and have control over your limbs, and understand your environment, and have this longterm coherence. Only for the last couple hundred thousand years have you maybe learned anything relevant to doing math, or developed the relevant cognitive skills. And so these things have cracked--are about to crack--frontier mathematics, coding, and so forth. But, there is this old-school perspective on human intelligence, like the Aristotelian perspective: That, what makes us human is our ability to do these kinds of reasoning tasks, and to have these higher level abstract thoughts. In fact, that's probably the least human thing about us, from the perspective of what will AI get first. It will get the Aristotelian understanding of humans--that will be the first skill it gets. And the very reptile brain stuff will be actually the last skills that it automates. Russ Roberts: Yeah. I think it's the amygdala--I can't remember--but the part that's working behind the scenes to figure out stuff that you can't even know you're figuring out. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. Yeah. 38:04 Russ Roberts: So, I haven't described your book, but what your book is--you and I have something in common. You've interviewed a lot of people about artificial intelligence, and I have, too. You've interviewed, I asked you before we started, you said maybe about 20. I think I've done 15 or so. In one sense, I'm way ahead of you, Dwarkesh. I interviewed Nick Bostrom, I think in 2014-- Dwarkesh Patel: Oh, wow-- Russ Roberts: when he was worrying about it. But, you're ahead of me. And, more than that, what this book is, is it's a compendium--it gives me ideas--it's a compendium of excerpts from the interviews you've done, grouped around these important issues in AI. As a result, it's very interesting. And as I'm reading the book, even though I know some of the insights from my pitiful 14 interviews, but you actually not only did more--and you probably remember them better because you wrote the book, pulled the book together, so that's an interesting cognitive thing. One thing that struck me is, despite having interviewed all these people and I've interviewed them across the spectrum as you have--worriers, optimists, practitioners, philosopher-types--your book, in a way, was the first time I got a little bit scared. And so I want to talk about why. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. Russ Roberts: I want you to react to it. It's going to be a long question--it's already too long; I apologize. You wrote an essay called "What Fully Automated Firms Will Look Like," and you've been alluding to it in some of the conversation we've had already. Here's what you write: Even people who expect human-level AI sooner are still seriously underestimating how different the world will look when we have it. Most people are anchoring on how smart they expect individual models to be. I.e., they're asking themselves, "What would the world be like if everyone had a very smart assistant and it could work 24/7?" Everyone is sleeping on the collective advantages AIs will have, which has nothing to do with raw IQ, but rather with the fact that they're digital. They can be copied, distilled, merged, scaled, and evolved in ways humans simply can't. What would a fully automated company look like with all the workers, all the managers as AIs? I claim that such AI firms will grow, coordinate, improve, and be selected for unprecedented speed. Now, let's not debate whether that's really feasible, and whether it's soon, or tomorrow, or 40 years from now, or 100 from now. Let's take it as true. And I'm reading that, I realized, along with some of the really bullish optimism of some of these practitioners, which you talk about at the beginning of the book. Some of it, they're self-interested, but a lot of it's just they drunk the Kool-Aid. It's just the way they see the world. There's something kind of beautiful about it. But, I realized when I finished some of those excerpts and some of the remarks from those people in the field, it's not that I got scared. I just got sad . And I want to lay out the sad thing. And, you can talk about scared and sad. I worry--and maybe it's a silly worry--that so many of the joys of my life will not be available to my granddaughter, who is two-and-a-half. I remember the time I was taking linear algebra and I realized you could prove the central limit theorem in multiple ways. Sorry, not linear algebra. This was an advanced statistics class. Those are the two hardest classes I took in college, by the way, so that's why I got confused. So, it turns out, you could prove it with something called characteristic functions, and then you could prove it with something called Eigen functions--I think. I don't even remember. I was 21 years old; it was almost 50 years ago. I just remember the feeling I got when I saw that these two mathematical techniques that were nothing alike could get to the same result and that there was some underlying coherence there. And, it was so exhilarating. I asked Claude--just before we started talking--to do it, give me those proofs; and I can't follow them anymore. But, I could ask Claude to help me understand them. And, so my granddaughter will probably never have that thrill. At some point pretty late in my life, my father told me I was a good writer. I think I was in my 50s. It was thrilling. He spent his life criticizing my writing. I think he'd thought that was good for me. And maybe it was, but that made it all the sweeter when he praised something I'd written. I don't know if my granddaughter will ever find her writing thrilling someone, given the way she's going to grow up. Buying my first car, being able to afford it, having a sense of agency and success. The thrill of discovering a used book that you've been looking for--that's been gone for a while. The thrill of discovering a novel thinker or a new podcast with Dwarkesh Patel. It's, like: 'Who is this guy? Hey, he reached out to me.' I apologize. I thought I knew your name, and I saw what you'd been doing and who you'd been talking to. It was like, 'Wow, this guy's doing great.' Then I find out you're--how old? Dwarkesh Patel: Twenty-four (24). Russ Roberts: Yeah. 24! Good grief. So that's really fun. I'm going to start reading your stuff. And, this is riffing off the top of my head. Now, I understand my granddaughter will have different thrills. Maybe better ones. But, reading your essay and your book made me realize for the first time that AI isn't just a better tool that will save me time, or--say, the way Google Maps does or Google Translate. It's going to remake the world in ways that will change the fabric of daily life, not just making it faster or cheaper, but really, really different. And, the world might be a better place. It will be more materially prosperous for the reasons you write about in that essay. It's not a small thing. But, will there be more human flourishing? I'm not so sure. For some people, absolutely. Many of them, you interviewed for your book. They all have the extraordinary experience of knowing they haven't just put a dent in the universe, but a big dent. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. Russ Roberts: It's this thing--this thing --that I can interact with that is mysterious, is really exciting. But it's going to change everything. And, it's scary. Not in the way that it's going to turn me into a paperclip, or run roughshod over me, or ignore me as a mere mortal. It's just the world is going to be really different. I wonder if even--what it's going to be like to read a novel written in 1950 for my granddaughter? I don't know. You thoughts? Sorry about that long-winded thing. Dwarkesh Patel: No, no. I'm actually glad, because it is such an important question [?inside? insight?]. It's something we gloss over when we're having this big-picture discussion about what are the trends in AI or something. I wouldn't even dismiss the paper-clipper concerns, because I have so much uncertainty. I've changed my mind so many times. I changed my mind in the last week on some of the most important questions about AI. And, so, I'm, like, who knows? Like, this has never happened before. We'll see. But, okay, putting that aside for a second. Yeah. So, it is the case--and, I think that's worth being honest about this, instead of having cope--that, sooner or later, there will be a point in which a human is just unlikely to add anything sort of like counter-factually valuable, at least in a sort of, like, count the GDP [gross domestic product] number sense. Where, horses right now, you can ride them for fun, but you're not--they're not there because they are needed to move you around. And it is, obviously, a big change. I have this intuition that humans have adapted to such--think about the world today and how many different transitions there have been, not just from the forager past. And even then, people underestimate how big a deal fire was, or how big a deal tools were. The agricultural revolution, the industrial revolution, secularization of society. The build-up of states instead of having just your local kin, or whatever. We've dealt with all of that. I feel like we'll do okay with material superabundance, but you're not that, in the grand scheme of things, economically productive. And the other thing I think people gloss over, which I think is important to the picture of what happens after, but people are maybe uncomfortable about is: transhumanism. I do think it's important that we give humans the freedom to have their minds, their bodies, their spirits amplified, changed, whatever they want. The intuition there is just people think of this in a very dystopian way of cyberpunk or something, but just there is a Schumpeterian or Hayekian thing of we just don't know what we don't know about what the future--like, instead of just thinking about new technology as dystopian, just try to imagine how the future might view the fact that they have minds who can experience greater beauty, greater creativity, greater connection with other minds. Aren't debilitated by the kinds of things that we find cumbersome. Another intuition here is--I'm sure you've heard this thought experiment; I think it comes from Phil Tramwell. Where, if I said, 'I'll send you back to the year 1000, but how much money would I have to pay you in the year 1000 such that you get this much wealth in the year 1000 and I send you back to that year?' I think it's quite plausible the answer is there's no amount of wealth that I would rather have in the year 1000 than just be alive right now. Especially in the future when we're talking about the kinds of things AI hive minds will invent, whether it's health, whether it's on just this wellbeing, and flourishing, and connection. I think it's hard to estimate. Very likely, your granddaughter or your granddaughter's granddaughter will have a similar perspective to us that we have to the people in the year 1000. Russ Roberts: Yeah. I don't know who Phil Tramwell is, but that thought experiment is the kind of--I spent way too much time writing about in my work. Dwarkesh Patel: Oh. Oh, sorry. Maybe you're the source. Russ Roberts: No, no, no. No. Dwarkesh Patel: I got it secondhand. Russ Roberts: No, it's not me because I never go back to 1000. I go back to 1950. There's almost nobody alive today who would literally, if they could experience 1950 in day-to-day moments, having experienced 2025, would go back. The story in part of it, of course, is that people in 1950 were playing[?] happy, some of them. Some of them weren't, obviously. Dwarkesh Patel: No. Russ Roberts: We can debate how many and what their characteristics were: they were treated badly, and so on. I agree with that thought experiment. I think it's powerful and profound. I think it's not just that I'm used to this and going back to 1950 would be painful. I live longer. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. Russ Roberts: I live higher quality life. My day-to-day life is more interesting because I'm not working as a farmer in 1900, say. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. 49:06 Russ Roberts: I used to be you, Dwarkesh. I used to have that boundless optimism about the power of human creativity to make the world better. But, I'm older than you. I'm not wiser. But when you're older, I think you lose some of your optimism. I don't think it's necessarily rational to lose it, but it comes from a variety of things outside of analytical thinking, so it's nice to be reminded of it. I hope you're right. Having an artificial knee does not ruin the human experience. So, it's nice to think that artificial intelligence will enhance our experiences together and individually in ways that will be meaningful to us. So, I like the idea of it. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah, and you and I, Russ, will be in a especially good position because what we're--I mean, we've got our post-AGI career already. Russ Roberts: Correct. Are you sure? Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. I think maybe-- Russ Roberts: Isn't that new technology, some ChatGPT, I think that that creates podcasts between two interesting, thoughtful people. We're, like, obsolete almost, already. Dwarkesh Patel: And you know, it'll get better. But, I think the sort of vicarious experience of knowing--I mean, it's already the case that on any given subject I might do a podcast on, there might be a better resource than that particular podcast. But, people still want to tune in because there's some consistency. There's some feeling of continuity and intellectual camaraderie. Maybe once you have personal AI friends and your actual friend is the one interviewing your virtual Russ Roberts about his new book or something, that changes. But, yeah, at least I prefer this over my previous, the career I was probably going to end up in as a computer science major. As I'm thinking about what will survive AGI. Russ Roberts: I feel that too, and we'll talk about that in a minute I hope, why that is the case. 51:16 Russ Roberts: I referenced recently in the conversation with Ian Leslie--it hasn't aired yet, but shortly--that in my conversation with Chuck Klosterman, he wonders about the question of who will be remembered as the quintessential rock-and roll band from this short era in the 1960s and 1970s when rock and roll was a thing. And, he points out--Klosterman does--that usually it's just one. And, a hundred, 200 years from now, will anyone be remembered as the creator of AI? Will there be a name when someone will say, wow--Steve Jobs really changed the world of computing. Steve Jobs will I think beat out Bill Gates; but, we'll see. But, on this , it's interesting to me--you said, 'Oh yeah, that was figured out, the transfer, a couple of researchers from Google.' You didn't mention their names. Part of it it's because there's more than one. So, that's makes it challenging. Is anybody you think going to be immortalized as 'the creator,' even if it's not true? Dwarkesh Patel: Only in retrospect: maybe Geoffrey Hinton, maybe Ilya Sutskever. Though it is interesting that--obviously I'm not a practitioner or anything, I just happen to know about it from reading about it. But, even just having some familiarity with what kinds of breakthroughs have happened in AI, this near-mode where you're, like: Oh, there isn't a one big breakthrough that is the locus of progress. It is just the industry and the fact that from all layers of the stack, from hardware to software to everything in between, you've been making these small improvements. And this is probably related to the idea of Gell-Mann amnesia. It's not the same concept, or where--in this case, maybe if the industry you understand best, you understand that it's a result of all this combinatorial human creativity where people are making these small discoveries and it's the hive mind of humans talking to each other and so forth. Maybe the industries you don't understand also work this way. And, whenever you think about, like: Oh, this is the genius behind flight--or cars, or whatever, break-through steam engines--it's also a similar story. Russ Roberts: Yeah, I think that's a great insight. I love that. I think that might be true. When you're close to it, you understand how complicated it is, but it gets distilled into this actually quite-misleading idea of the great innovator when it's actually a hive mind anyway. It's just not obvious unless you're really close to it. Do you have any generalizations after spending a lot of time with these folks? So, not only have you interviewed more people, but your podcasts are longer than mine, so you're way ahead of me on the contact. One thing that strikes me is they're awfully optimistic on average. There are some warriors, but a lot of them are just cheerfully optimistic about technology and the future. Any thoughts you have about them as people or their perspective? Dwarkesh Patel: I think--maybe I am a biased reporter here because I am friends with many of them and so forth and I've interviewed them. But, I think we live in one of the good universes. I think there's a lot of adjacent universes where the kinds of problems that we should be thinking about--I think we should be thinking about the paper clippers, because, again, it's so hard to think about. Maybe we'll look back--I guess we won't be looking back--but maybe somebody will look back and say Eliezer had it right along all along. But, the fact that the kinds of people who are building these labs think about this--I mean, you may say it's lip service, but lip service is better than nothing. And, often these solutions are--maybe a lot of the key solutions will just end up being, like, you do the obvious thing it's not going to cost you that much, but you have to make it somewhat of a priority. And, there's a lot of adjacent universes where the idea of a misaligned AI or the idea of this hive mind getting out of your control is just something that doesn't occur to people; and you just think about them as tools until you get to this point. And so, I do appreciate the fact that these people do seem to be--and I take them at their word, or at least give them benefit of the doubt unless shown otherwise--that they got into this or as they got into it and they thought more seriously about the prospect of AGI, they do take this what happens in the world after a question seriously ; and it's better than what could have been. Russ Roberts: The 'Eliezer' you mentioned is Eliezer Yudkowsky, who is one of the warriors. I'll link to my interview with him. And, do you have one also? We'll link to-- Dwarkesh Patel: Yep. Russ Roberts: Okay. We'll link to that as well. 56:19 Russ Roberts: How has immersing yourself in this world changed you, if at all? Besides keeping up at night versus not worrying versus keeping up at night, which you alluded to a minute ago? Dwarkesh Patel: One thing that has happened is, whatever interview I do about whatever topic, I can't help but ask how does this relate to AI? And, it can be sort of, I'll be interviewing this geneticist of ancient DNA [deoxyribonucleic acid], David Reich, who I'm sure you must have interviewed at some point. Russ Roberts: No, I haven't. Dwarkesh Patel: And, we're talking about what happened 60,000 years ago and why did this one tribe wipe out this other tribe? And, I'm like: Oh, or what were the genetic changes between humans and primates?' And then, you're like, 'Does this provide evidence for the scaling hypothesis or are the structural similarities between monkey's and human's brains such that it was only scaling that changed?' Or when I had Joseph Henrik on, author of Secrets of Our Success , I'm, like, 'Well, why don't you think the hive mind of AI is going to be even more powerful because of the population size and the bandwidth?' So, maybe it has made me more of a one-track thinker, but just because if you think this is happening soon, and if you think this is--it's also such an intellectually fascinating question because you might think that AI is just about answering these technical questions about what will happen in scaling, what will happen with these new training techniques. But fundamentally you're trying to figure out what will a future society of these different kinds of beings look like? And, there's no field of human knowledge, which is irrelevant to answering that question. You need to know the economics of growth theory or how do we model billions of extra agents-- Russ Roberts: Labor markets-- Dwarkesh Patel: quickly ramping up. Russ Roberts: Labor markets--we'll call it that. It's a form of hand-waving that sounds somewhat systematic, yeah. Dwarkesh Patel: Even the primatology and cultural anthropologist, geopolitical thinkers about how will states think about this kind of competition for this kind of power. It's all relevant. And so, the great thing about the book was the fact that you could just put these different kinds of thinkers side-by-side and see how they use their conceptual tools to answer these rather gnarly questions. Russ Roberts: That's very cool. While we're talking, I think this is true: I think if you believe that AI will eventually be able to anticipate the future perfectly because it'll be so smart--a view, again, I'm highly skeptical of, but it's interesting to contemplate it--I think it'll also be able to backcast. Won't it be able to totally recreate the past from the world's current conditions? Anyway, if you're a determinist. I'm not, but maybe I should be. So, that'll be great. We're going to go back--Joseph Henrik, all those folks who've done all this incredibly imaginative speculation based on four fossils and two carcasses found preserved in tar, they're going to find out whether they're right or not. Dwarkesh Patel: There's actually a really--there's this interesting speculation that, look, if they made--I mean, I'm sure you heard the Boston argument about there'll be more simulations than real world. And so, we're probably in a simulation. There's an interesting wrinkle to that where if you are a future civilization, what is the period you'd really want to simulate? Maybe you want to know--I think you just want to run a lot of experiments on developing smarter intelligences and see how does that go, because it's, like, the most important thing that will ever happen. Maybe it's relevant to a separate question that they are asking themselves about. Like, maybe they're building a level above and they're, like, will this go well? Let's not run the experiment. And so, if you were going to simulate the past, this seems like the point of time which you'd want to simulate, and maybe that adds additional credence to the idea that we're part of this forecasting back-testing that the AIs will want to do already. But, yeah, I think counterfactual history will just be such an improved field as a result of this. It's not even AI--have you seen, I'm sure you saw Nat Friedman's and Luke Farritor's Herculaneum scroll thing? Russ Roberts: No. Dwarkesh Patel: Oh, I think you'll love this. So, 79 AD, the Mount Vesuvius erupts and there's this library in Herculaneum-- Russ Roberts: Oh, they just found it, right? Dwarkesh Patel: In Rome-- Russ Roberts: Yeah-- Dwarkesh Patel: So, we've known about it for hundreds of years. We've had the burnt scrolls and they CT-scanned [Computed Tomography scan] it. And then they launched this competition of using modern AI techniques to try to process these CT scans and read the burnt scrolls. And, actually one of the guys who is running DOGE [Department of Government Efficiency], this twenty-one-year-old super-genius, he listened to my podcast with Nat where we announced the prize and he then got interested in working on the prize and he solved it. And so, he figured out how to decode these scrolls. And so, we're going to learn a lot more about the past just from discovering knowledge like this with the new techniques. Russ Roberts: That's very cool. He said he's super-smart or the phrase used--he could be an AI already. We don't know about it. He could be developed in a basement in China somewhere, and he has been rolled out. Never mind. I'm not even going to go there. 1:01:33 Russ Roberts: You mentioned that you take a week or two to prep for an interview. How would you describe your preparation? And I'm sure it varies by different guests. But, describe what you do. What's your goal? Dwarkesh Patel: First, I go into this by picking a guest which merits that depth. And, if I'm going to be spending a lot--sort of, this is my life, I spend my life just reading and researching in advance of interviews--I just want to pick the guest who will--I'm excited to spend two weeks reading their books and papers and everything. And often that means turning down guests who are much more bigger names or more influential or something just because maybe talking to you for two hours--not you, but talking to somebody in general and for two hours might be interesting, but is--there are two weeks' worth of prep. And then, the prep itself--I'd be curious about your process--but for me it's just the obvious thing of: read their books, read their papers, talk to their colleagues, read the adjacent literature in their field. And it depends on the field, right? So, AI is different than some more codified field like economics. But, more or less do the obvious thing, but do it long enough. What's your process? Russ Roberts: We're the opposite. I want as many interviews as I can find that I don't have to read for two weeks because I have a day job running a college or-- Dwarkesh Patel: That's right-- Russ Roberts: being president of a college. I don't run it: It's impossible. But I try to help it. So, when I have a guest with a book, I try to read the whole book and, I say, I try to read every word. But if I can't read every word, I'm going to read every page . So, I'm going to skim a page, which I've gotten very good at, and figure out what are the key ideas on this page to make sure I don't ask a stupid question or treat a guest unfairly because, 'Oh yeah, they talked about that in Chapter Six and I missed it.' And, because I'm busy--well, two things have happened. One, I'm much better at that than I was 15, 20 years ago and when the podcast started. And, I'm also looking for guests I don't have to read a book--because it's hard. But, I think the more interesting prep time that I don't spend--I'm going to tell you this; I'll give you this example and you can think about your own practice. I've gotten very good at reading that book and I can develop the questions to fill an hour-plus in really about 10 minutes. I don't have to spend a lot of time thinking about what the key questions are. And, it's more than just: what are interesting questions? I try to have something of a narrative arc over the course of the episode so that the listener can hold it together. Right? It's not just, 'Oh, here's some entertainment, here's some stimulus, mental stimulus.' And, 'This is interesting and that is interesting.' I try to help them understand the argument of the book. And, sometimes I'm doing that in a way that the author didn't do. I might have a different conception of it. And so--but I can do that very quickly. What I don't spend enough time doing is thinking how do I get better at this? And we can talk about this in a minute. But, how do I--I've got really used to this because I've done almost a thousand now. And they're better than they were, but they could be a lot better maybe. And, how do I think about getting better? And, I don't do enough of that. So, it's not a big part of my prep. What's the key thing in this interview coming up that I have to nail to take it up a notch? Dwarkesh Patel: And, you mean more from the raw content or the distribution, or both, or something else? Russ Roberts: It's not the raw content, it's not, you say the distribution? Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah, as in reach on platforms and things like that? Russ Roberts: No, what I'm talking about is our rapport. Dwarkesh Patel: That's right. Russ Roberts: So, you and I have been having a good time. I've teased you a few times, you took it well, you didn't get offended. And, it's conceivable that because of that, either in the next 10 or 15 minutes as we continue the conversation, or if I invite you back, we're going to have literally a more transcendent conversation than we could otherwise have. One of the challenges is, is we're doing this over Zoom. And people say, 'Oh, that must be hard.' Or I used to do them over the phone and they'd say, 'That's really hard. You can't see the other person.' But, a lot of guests are shy, and they don't want to look at me in the eye and it makes them uncomfortable. And so, face-to-face can actually be more awkward. There can be less rapport. So, what I want to get out of you is an unsafe, ideally, an unsafe response. I don't want to fool you. I don't want to surprise you; I don't want to hurt your feelings, I don't want cause you to regret what you said, but I want to unlock something that-- Dwarkesh Patel: That's right-- Russ Roberts: you haven't written before and you haven't revealed to anyone else in a public podcast, say. And we've had a couple of those, I think, for me. I mean, I haven't read everything you've written, but I thought this had a spontaneity and a chemistry to it that sometimes doesn't happen. So, I don't think enough about how to make sure that happens. Maybe it can't, maybe it's just luck, maybe. I don't know. Dwarkesh Patel: One of the things I love about your podcast is that you do this. And so, maybe I think that's sort of what makes EconTalk special. I've been thinking about--you have this intuition, at least I have this intuition when I do interviews, like, 'Oh, maybe they'll find this sensitive,' or whatever. But especially if they're big names--like, whenever you go to, like, these dinner parties with whether it's influential people or scholars or whatever, between themselves, they're, like, constantly teasing each other and they're, like, 'Didn't you totally mess up that business thing?' Or, 'Well, I think this idea is totally wrong, and here's why I think that,' right? They're constantly doing this to each other. And, this is the sort of relationship that they expect, that they find fun . That's why they have this rapport with their friends and colleagues and business partners or so forth. And so, what I've been trying to do is, if I was at dinner with them and I had this relationship with them, how would I have this conversation with them? And part of that is, maybe making it less salient that this is an interview--and I think you do a wonderful job of this. So, if we were actually at dinner, it was just you and me, what would the conversation be like? And it would just be in many--so there is this thing that happens where people, interviewers will have the sense of, like, 'I don't want to know, or I don't care about the answer to this.' Or it's, 'The answer is obvious, but I have to ask this for the audience,' so the audience can keep up with something. And, whenever they do that, it's quite obvious, and at least me as part of the audience, I'm, like, I'm just, like: If you didn't find that interesting, why would you think that I would find it interesting? Why don't you just ask the thing that you actually want to follow up on? And, even if I don't personally find it interesting, the fact that you find it interesting and you are more active and you're like, 'This is the thing. This is the crux. I want to know more about this.' It just would make the whole thing more lively and more fun to follow along with. 1:08:40 Russ Roberts: Yeah. Great journalists, and I know a couple--I'm not lucky to know a lot of them--but I know a few great journalists. And, this is a skill. Right? First, it's putting people at ease. It's getting them to enter into a space of: It's just you and me having this conversation no one else is listening. And, it's asking--the real art, and this happens very rarely for me, but I think a good journalist or a spy can do this very well--is asking, knowing when to ask the revealing question that if you started the conversation with that, the person would totally freeze up, put up walls and would be guarded for the whole rest of the time. But after enough time has passed--and again, this could be the third interview three years from now, or the fifth--that matters, but ideally within this interview, you've gotten them to trust you and you've put them enough at ease that they feel safe telling you something either because they've forgotten that there's a few hundred thousand people listening. Or, they don't care anymore. And for me, it's the 'don't care anymore' part that's really rewarding. When you realize someone just wants to share something with you. Or vice versa: I want to share something. By the way, the other thing I love, for me, a successful interview is: I have a new thought. That's very rare. We had a couple here--for me already. That's all gravy. Dwarkesh Patel: Yeah. I mean, it is a thing that I probably don't spend enough time thinking about. I might spend a week prepping for the interview. And then, maybe I should game plan more of: What is the first sort of joke I'll make to put them at ease before the cameras start rolling? How will we transition, or something? But I do, just, like, the general vibe of a colleague if you're at a dinner together, would kind of hassle you in a very teasy way. I mean, the key thing is to make sure that it's a vibe of not a reporter who is trying to get you for some naughty thing that you might've done or something-- Russ Roberts: Exactly. Not sandbagging-- Dwarkesh Patel: Exactly. But , somebody you respect, a colleague will just have--they won't just ask you to ramble. They'll be, like, 'Wait, this doesn't make sense to me.' Or, 'Yeah, that sounds wrong.' So, just having that sort of teasy, friendly attitude, I think. And often these people are expecting this, and often--because this is their life, right? They're not expecting to go unchallenged. And they enjoy it more. I had to be away for that. Makes for a better conversation, too. Russ Roberts: Yeah. It also has implications for who you choose as your guests. I'm sure you've experienced this: Sometimes you invite someone on the program, they don't like to talk, or they're not comfortable talking and they're not good at talking. They're really good at writing. And you made a mistake inviting them; and you find yourself talking more than you wanted to. I've had guests--I won't name them--but they didn't know I was an economist. They didn't do any homework. They do any prep. They just got invited. They don't get invited very much. They said yes; and then they're treating me like I'm a reporter. You know, doing a podcast--which actually tickles me and amuses me. But, I think the kind of report you're talking about, what I think of is--I think listeners love to listen in. And that's why your example of explaining it for the audience, like, I'm somehow--I don't want to hear that . I want to be the fly on the wall when two interesting people are sharing their thoughts. And sharing is better than interviewing, right? Sharing is much better than: I've got a list of questions; I just go down them one by one. And when we're done, I say, 'Thank you, Dwarkesh for being part of EconTalk,' when in fact what's really fun is that two people who respect each other--as I think we do--have a more peer-to-peer conversation than this famous person I'm trying to interview who is way above me professionally and intellectually and so on. Dwarkesh Patel: And can I just say one thing? Which is that, when I look at my most popular guests, you would think it's, like, 'Oh, it's the famous people,' or something like that. So, there is this risk, as you mentioned, where somebody might not be that good at talking; and you read their book and you're super-interested in it, but the podcast didn't turn out well. That's actually very rarely happened to me. I can't even think of a single case that might have happened. It's so much more common--if I look at my most popular guests, I've interviewed people like Mark Zuckerberg and Satya Nadella and Demis Hassabis and Dario and Ilya Sutskever. They are not my most popular guests. My most popular guest is Sarah Paine. Before I interviewed her, she was not a publicly well-known person. All she's a military historian that has written about every single conflict of the 20th century and others. I loved--her books were amazing military history. And, as a result, her videos have, like, 3 million, 2 million--I did four separate ones with her--1 million, 2 million, 3 million views each. And, it was just--the other example is David Reich, who is then my second most popular guest--has had 1.5 million views. And again, just, like, [?] I liked this book about ancient genetics. I had no idea how he would be as a presenter . And, it might not even be clear if he's a quote-unquote "Good presenter" in the sort of traditional sense. But he understands the ideas. He can really riff on the details of these interesting models. And, once you get through those, then you get to the Satya Nadellas and the Mark Zuckerbergs. And this is also a reason why--you can be a little more, not confrontational, but a little more cavalier when you have these big names on, and be, like, this will still be a real interview. Because at the end of the day, what moves the ball forward for me , both from the perspective of the audience and what makes me enjoy my job is having interesting conversations that I enjoy. And so, we're going to do that regardless of who the guest is. Because who the guest just doesn't reliably end up mattering. 1:15:03 Russ Roberts: Great minds think alike. My next question was about Sarah Paine. So, I'm looking into you because I get your book, and I see this interview with Sarah Paine. I've never heard of her. And then I see it's got a lot of views. And then, I watch 30 seconds of it: it's, like, 'This is fantastic.' Half of the fantastic is her delivery is just so authoritative. It's, like: obviously it's truth--which it's not. But it could be. And, the second part is she knows a lot, and she's talking about a lot of interesting things. And, I also found an article about you where it mentions that because you interviewed Sarah Paine, Noah Smith interviewed her. And I'm thinking--I read that, going, 'Yeah, I was thinking about that.' And I might still. How did you find her? And how do you find people like that more generally? Because I think--part of the reason she's popular is the same reason that the hole-in-the-wall restaurant is popular rather than the famous one that everyone knows. Everyone likes the idea that there's a brilliant person that you only know about, most people don't. And I used to feel that way about Scott Alexander. Everyone's caught on. But, when I first read him a zillion years ago, it was like, 'Oh my gosh, this guy is so interesting.' And, so, you find it and it's exhilarating. It's so fun. How'd you find Sarah Paine, and how do you look for her, and people like her? Dwarkesh Patel: I had this phase where I got really interested in World War II. My interests are, like, 30 years older than I am or something. So, I asked on Twitter, 'Who should I interview about World War II?' And then, Tanner Greer, who is this great blogger, suggested Sarah Paine. And he said, 'She's not famous, but she has been to all the archives on all the continent. She's been to the archives in China, in Russia, Japan, Britain--you just name it, she's done the work. She's got the deepest models.' And then, so I started reading her books as a result. And, I don't know, maybe had, like, five Amazon reviews or something. It just was not--and I couldn't even find that interviews of her, because she just didn't have a public profile. Now, what I learned afterwards, and she will never say this publicly, but it's true, is if you go on Amazon and you look up her book, the author is S.C.M. Paine, not Sarah Paine. She's in her 1960s--I'm not sure, but maybe 50s or something. When she was coming up in military history, I don't think--saying Sarah Paine instead of S.C.M. Paine, wasn't helpful. And so, there's a question of, 'Well, why is this such a compelling presenter? Somebody who has deeply studied all these different conflicts, why are they not already famous?' And, after I interviewed her, she went on Time , she got it profiled in the Time Magazine ; Noah, obviously; many others. And maybe, I think, the answer might just be that military history, at least until recently, was not a field where female scholars were recognized to the extent they should have been. Russ Roberts: Yeah; it's an amazing thing for me, and I talk about it sometimes with respect to economics and the rarity of public economists in the past and how many there are now--because of technology, because of podcasting and other things, blogging. But just: the world is full of interesting people. And, one of the advantages of being an academic--and you're not, right? But, one of the things that I liked about academics was being a professor, is that you get to spend your day with smart, interesting people who tell you things you haven't thought of. So, if you're a curious person, academic life has an appeal. Now it's overrated, big time. And, it's less true now probably than it was before because it's gotten even narrower and less interesting. But, one of the reasons Sarah Paine is so attractive --and I'm using her as an archetype--is you can tell she's not trying to be famous. She's not selling herself. She's not trying to build a brand. She's just a thoughtful person and who has read a lot and knows a lot. Like talking to Claude, but in the flesh. So, there's something special about authenticity and about a disdain or clearly a lack of interest in self-promotion that also makes her attractive. But, I do think what makes it fun for you and me to do what we do is the chance to talk to really smart people and ask them questions. It's an extraordinary blessing. What a privilege! Dwarkesh Patel: Yes, yes. Can I ask you a question, Russ? Russ Roberts: Yeah, sure. Dwarkesh Patel: So, you say: 'Look, if people want this kind of lifestyle--where people can explore different kinds of ideas, meet interesting people--academic life can provide that.' I'm curious what you make of this: A part of me wonders whether more people could do this kind of thing independently. And so, nothing is preventing you from starting your own blog, your own podcast. I mean, podcast especially is helpful in kick-starting here, because instead of having to come up with your own world-view from scratch, you can first interview a bunch of people who have just thought about these topics much longer. And, in prepping for them and just [?clicking?] with them, you can build up this repertoire of conceptual tools. But, you can just independently do this. And, I often give this advice. And one of my friends teases me--he's, like: 'You're like a country bumpkin who won the lottery,' and 'You're telling every person you know: You got to get the scratchpad. Buy as many as you can.' But, maybe, yeah: my sense is that this is a field where it is not some, like, I'm going to become America's Got Talent or something. I think this is, like, a viable career path, and it's obviously incredibly fun. Do you disagree with that advice? That you should, like, consider being an independent--content-creator is a terrible term, but you see what I mean?-- Russ Roberts: I know what you mean. Yeah-- yeah. Dwarkesh Patel: Like, a podcast, blogger. Russ Roberts: Well, I don't know if you've heard my interviews with Adam Mastroianni, but he's somebody who is very thoughtful person. He's a trained psychologist, had a normal academic career, and decided he'd just not do that. He'd still do research, he'd still write about the things he cared about. He was just could do it on Substack and see if he could make a living that way. I think that talent is scarce. But that's my first thought. We won't name names, but there are podcasters who don't seem so smart or curious, and some of them are thriving. But, on average, it's a hard thing to do; and it's a hard thing to do regularly. Most people don't want to sit and read for a week or two before interviewing somebody. Dwarkesh Patel: Right. Russ Roberts: So, I think it selects people who are really good at talking--obviously--but also good at absorbing information and also good at this weird skill called interviewing that looks really easy. And I'd be curious if you think it's as hard as--I think it's incredibly hard to do either because I'm not very good at it or it's just hard. So, I'm not convinced it's going to be a way for many, many people to pursue an intellectual life. What I think is available is listening to podcasts. And, one of the things that is not very well--surprisingly not happening--is aggregating podcasts in any kind of way. And people have thought about it, worked on it, talked about it. But, maybe it's not even very necessary. Maybe that's the reason it hasn't happened. Just by googling or using AI, you can certainly find so much extraordinary material to teach yourself stuff and to amuse yourself and to grow intellectually--as you walk your dog, exercise, do the dishes, and so on. Do you think it's hard? Do you think it's hard? Is it hard for you? Dwarkesh Patel: It is hard for me . If I'm being honest, I have friends who have better things to do with their life, maybe. I mean, you are running a college, right? I mean, many other people in your position would not make the time to also spread this content and this knowledge to the world in the form of podcast. And, they would just be doing the thing that their day job is just [?deciding?] them. And, I have other friends like this who I think would also have good podcasts if they didn't have better things to do with their time. I fortunately or unfortunately don't. But, my sense is that when I go to dinner with them or something--especially when we invite somebody who is in a different field and they start asking them questions--I'm like, 'Yeah, if you got into this field, I'd be worried for my job.' And, I get that feeling more than a little. I mean, on the point about--this shouldn't be your sort of, 'I'll keep doing this for five years even if it doesn't work,' because it is the case that there is a skill to it and maybe you lack it. I will say: Look, we tell people to start startups. And, we think that that's a sort of totally viable and praiseworthy thing to try with your career at some point. And, if it doesn't work--I mean, like, 1% of them succeed--if it doesn't work, it didn't work. You can do something else afterwards. But, it's worth trying in case it succeeds. This is such a fun job that I feel like having it actually become a career is the equivalent of having a successful startup or something like that in terms of how much I value it. And, if we think it's viable for you to take a 1% shot at starting a startup, and if it doesn't succeed, you can do something else. I just think it's sort of maybe should be a thing where: Yes, go in knowing that it's a risk and it often doesn't work out, and there's power laws[?loss?], but give it a real chance. Like, spend three months making it your main thing. You don't have to quit your job. You don't have to do anything irresponsible; but, like, actually try. At least, I feel lucky that people gave me that encouragement early on. Otherwise I would have just been the software engineer that I might be automated, too. I don't want to be cavalier about it, and did this instead. 1:25:29 Russ Roberts: But, that's because you're really smart--I'm guessing. I don't know you very well, but I'm guessing it's because you're really smart and you can absorb a lot of information fairly quickly in that 1-to-2-week period, to do a good job. So, I'm not sure it's good advice, in general. For a certain person who has different alternatives, it might be good advice. What's hard about it for you? Dwarkesh Patel: Finding the main thing. With any guest you could talk about a million different things, but there's often a key crux, where if--not only should you press on it, but you should keep pressing on it until you have totally exhausted any potential confusion or any chance in which you think they're not addressing your question or something. Because a lot of ideas do have this--like, I don't know: If a Marxist came on your podcast and you didn't just hassle them a little bit about this key foible in their worldview, then it just would not be a successful interview. And so, maybe just even as much as I try to emphasize the main thing, I probably under-emphasize just a really hammering on it. Russ Roberts: Yeah, there's nothing worse than you get to the end of the interview, you think that was really good. Then you look at your notes and you realize, 'Oh, I forgot to ask him the one key thing.' It's still a good interview. But, it's just there was one thing that would have made a great interview. Dwarkesh Patel: What is it for you, by the way? Russ Roberts: For me, it's a few things. I try to keep them to about an hour. And now we're about an hour and 28 minutes of this and we're going to go a little bit longer. When I used to try to keep it to really right around an hour, I'd be very wary and conscious of the time. And so, I'm balancing: listening to the argument, trying to figure out whether I should ask a follow-up question, a challenging question, trying to think, 'Should I skip to the next topic?' Looking at the time. And keeping my own thoughts straight. And, I think some listeners think I talk too much. I've talked too much in this interview, which is interesting because I think I've done so many AI interviews, I think I have something to say about it. My mind's just ran for a few different times. But, the hard part is knowing how much of that to do. And how much of it is me. And, if it's none of it's me--like, some people, some guests, most guests, I want them to shine. I'm trying to bring out their insights. But then, 'Oh, I have so much to say, too.' And, the answer is, of course, sometimes you don't, and you should just shut up and let the guests talk--as some of my listeners complain. Those trade-offs--balancing those things--are what's hard for me. And, as you get older and you've had a long day, like I have--it's 7:30 here in Jerusalem--I lose my train of thought much more than I did when I was younger. And, I'll sometimes stop and say, 'Well, we'll edit this out.' And, listeners don't hear that because we edit it out. But that's hard, too, and it's kind of sad. But, anyway. Dwarkesh Patel: I mean, there are a lot of scenarios where--in retrospect I'm just like, 'Gosh, I missed asking about that.' Or, 'There's an obvious follow-up here,' or something. And, maybe it's something that's sort of harder to appreciate when you're just listening to it, is: as an interviewer, how many things you are sort of, you were thinking about how much time is left and what is the other topics you want to cover. And , what is the follow-up to their specific thing they just said, and what are the transitions and so forth. And so, often in all that froth, the--certain things can get missed. I mean, I would say with respect to that particular thing that people point out, as compared to your audience of hundreds of thousands of people, there is a failure mode of updating too much on what a couple of people who send emails say. And, I personally, as a fan of EconTalk actually really appreciate that you have back-and-forth with your guests, because these people have done other podcasts, right? So, if you just want their raw spiel, you can get it somewhere else. Yeah. Keep the Russ style, I would say. Russ Roberts: That's sweet. What's your favorite thing about it? How many have you done, by the way? Dwarkesh Patel: Of EconTalk? Russ Roberts: No. No! No, about yours. About being a podcaster. No. Yeah: 'Enough about me. Let's talk about what you think of me.' No. First, how many episodes have you done? How many interviews do you think you've done, do you know? Dwarkesh Patel: Probably, close to a hundred. Russ Roberts: Okay? So, what's your favorite thing so far? Not favorite guest. I hate that question. What's your favorite thing about doing a hundred interviews? Dwarkesh Patel: The fact that it gives me the opportunity, offline, to meet incredibly interesting people who teach me a lot. There's different ways in which you can model why the podcast improves over time or grows over time. And, I actually believe that slow compounding growth is fake for maybe a reason--basically, I think good stuff actually does boil up pretty fast. And, it's not even that just doing the podcast itself has made me that much better, because you can keep doing the same thing again and again. I think one of the lessons in life is that you keep doing the same thing again and again in life. And, if you're not getting any sort of signal from it, you won't improve. The main way in which I've improved and the main thing I've gotten out of the podcast is, hopefully I do a decent enough job on a topic and that gives me the chance to reach out or be reached out to by some practitioners in the field who can teach me more. We go out to dinner, coffee, and so forth. That helps me do a better podcast on the topic, helps me meet smarter people. Dot, dot, dot. And that, especially in AI, has been the main source of--I mean, I'm genuinely just--you're very kind to suggest this, but I know in college I was in the middle of my class or something. I'm not trying to be humble or something, but I do know that a lot of the way in which I'm able to ask maybe good questions about AI or any other topic is that I'm surrounded in San Francisco by this hive mind. I mean, going back to the value of the hive mind. And, the key is to try to replicate that in other fields as well. Russ Roberts: See, you're in the middle of your class, but that was in a class called Computer Science. This is a different class. This is the class called Curiosity. This is the class called synthesizing a bunch of different things. It's a very different skill. So, I appreciate your humility, but I'm not sure it's deserved. But, it's nice to say. 1:32:24 Russ Roberts: Let's close with curiosity. In prepping for our conversation--I realize it must be a cliché; everyone must know it already. But, what I find is that the more interviews I do and the more interesting people I get to spend time with, my curiosity does not get sated. It gets stimulated. And, what a strange thing that is, right? I want to know some stuff. Well, okay? here's some stuff. Now you know a lot more than you did before. You don't say, 'Well, yeah, I think I'm close to knowing enough.' It doesn't. You want to go deeper and deeper. That, to me, is--I suspect it's genetic for me, but I think I've fed it over my lifetime in a way, because I haven't been much of a specialist. And I did a lot of reading outside of economics all my life. And, it's bad advice. You're talking about bad advice. Here's some bad advice: 'Yeah, read whatever you want. Don't pay attention to school. Grades aren't important and it doesn't really matter. Just do what you care about. And, whatever your passion is, just pursue it.' Yeah. Well, if it doesn't pay, it's usually a problem. So, it's not the only thing; but it's not irrelevant . But, for me, the great thing is--and I don't know if this will last much longer. I'm 70 years old. But, I might be as curious now as I've ever been. I'm not as good at digging into that Central Limit Theorem. I'm not as curious about that. But I find lots of things exciting to discover. And, I think it's a gift. But, I think it's a gift you can build by exploring different things. Or maybe it's just genetic and you're stuck with it, with whatever level you're at. I don't know. Dwarkesh Patel: Hopefully, I'm getting to that point. But, you've definitely had the opportunity and do this: is that, if you've done a thousand interviews, and obviously have done your own research in the past and so forth, you are aware of the contradictions, the open questions, the different hypotheses, the mysteries in so many different fields. And, that is such a rewarding experience. Because, when you're a kid or something, you can maybe ask a question and you're curious, but it's a curiosity that's very often responded to in very cavalier, 'Why is this sky blue? Oh, there's this explanation,' or whatever. And then, over time, with some of these conversations, you start talking to these scholars and you're, like, 'Nobody knows this.' And they have an hypothesis--I mean, similar to the point you made about Dario saying it's an [?] and we don't know why it works. Especially in AI, there's so many questions like this. But, even outside of AI like, David Reich, I obsessed about the interview for months after I did it because what I learned is a lot of the things we thought we knew about human evolution are just, like--actually, we don't know them. We don't know where it happened. How much of it was the human groups from Neanderthals outside of Europe mixing back into the human gene pool in Africa. We don't know when it happened exactly. We don't know how it happened. What were the sort of mutational or cultural changes? And, just this total shock and the open questions that I had, which some of which even David's lab has not yet discovered the answers to, and getting to do a--I mean, the world is so endlessly fascinating, and our job is just to find the smartest person in any given field and then just pepper them with our open: Why this? Why that? How come not this? How do these ideas connect? And, that's our job. And I'm incredibly delighted about that. Russ Roberts: My guest today has been Dwarkesh Patel. Dwarkesh, thanks for being part of EconTalk. Dwarkesh Patel: Thanks, Russ. Econlib The Library of Economics and Liberty Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA econlib@libertyfund.org About About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Publications Books Articles EconTalk EconLog Videos Resources Quickpicks CEE Encyclopedia College Guides High School Guides Sign up for our newsletter Enter your email address to subscribe to the Econlib monthly newsletter. » Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA info@libertyfund.org © 2024 Econlib, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Part of the Liberty Fund Network.