# [EconTalk] The Deceptive Power of Maps (with Paulina Rowinska)

**Source**: https://www.econtalk.org/the-deceptive-power-of-maps-with-paulina-rowinska/
**Atlas ID**: 223248
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.141089

---

The Deceptive Power of Maps (with Paulina Rowinska) - Econlib Liberty Fund Network Econlib Liberty Fund OLL Adam Smith Works Law & Liberty EconLog Blog Browse by Author Browse by Topic Browse by Date Search EconLog RSS Subscribe EconTalk Latest Episodes Browse by Date Browse by Guest Browse by Category Browse Extras Search EconTalk RSS Feeds Articles Latest Articles Liberty Classics Browse by Author Browse by Date Search Articles Books Books Bios Books by Date Books by Author Search Books Encyclopedia Index Browse by Author Browse by Title Biographies Search Encyclopedia Guides Index #ECONLIBREADS College Topics High School Topics Subscribe to QuickPicks Search Guides Videos Index Search Videos Liberty Fund Network Econlib OLL Adam Smith Works Library of Law & Liberty Home / The Deceptive Power of Maps (with Paulina Rowinska) Jun 30 2025 How can the state of Colorado have nearly 700 sides? Why is a country's coastline as long as you want it to be? And how is it that your UPS driver has more routes to choose from than there are stars in the universe? Listen as mathematician Paulina Rowinska talks with EconTalk's Russ Roberts about the mathematical tricks hiding in plain sight with every map we use. From the Mercator projection that warped how we see the world to the London Tube map that reinvented urban navigation, they discuss how distorting geography shapes our ability to navigate reality. LISTEN NOW: Comment ● READ TRANSCRIPT ● DELVE DEEPER 14 DOWNLOAD RELATED EPISODE Sabine Hossenfelder on Physics, Reality, and Lost in Math Physicist Sabine Hossenfelder talks about her book Lost in Math with EconTalk host Russ Roberts. Hossenfelder argues that the latest theories in physics have failed to find empirical confirmation. Particles that were predicted to be discovered by the mathematics have... EXPLORE MORE Related EPISODE Cathy O'Neil on Weapons of Math Destruction Cathy O'Neil, data scientist and author of Weapons of Math Destruction talks with EconTalk host Russ Roberts about the ideas in her book. O'Neil argues that the commercial application of big data often harms individuals in unknown ways. She argues... EXPLORE MORE Browse our archive of 800+ episodes containing over ten years of podcasts Explore audio transcript, further reading that will
                    help you delve deeper into this week’s episode, and
                    vigorous conversations in the form of our comments
                    section below. READER COMMENTS READ COMMENT POLICY Eugene Illovsky Jun 30 2025 at 9:52am Thank you for this wonderful episode.  Brought to mind the Borges short (one page) story about maps, On Exactitude in Science. Jonathan Seder Jun 30 2025 at 12:40pm This story by Jorge Luis Borges titled “On Rigor in Science,” was first published in the March 1946 edition of Los Anales de Buenos Aires as part of a piece called “Museo” credited to “B. Lynch Davis”, a joint pseudonym of Borges and Adolfo Bioy Casares. It was collected later that year in the 1946 second Argentinian edition of Borges’ Historia universal de la infamia (A Universal History of Infamy): In that Empire, the Art of Cartography reached such perfection that the map of one Province alone took up the whole of a City, and the map of the empire, the whole of a Province.  In time, those Unconscionable Maps did not satisfy and the Colleges of Cartographers set up a Map of the Empire which had the size of the Empire itself and coincided with it point by point. Less Addicted to the Study of Cartography, Succeeding Generations understood that this Widespread Map was Useless and not without Impiety they abandoned it to the Inclemencies of the Sun and of the Winters.  In the deserts of the West some mangled Ruins of the Map lasted on, inhabited by Animals and Beggars; in the whole Country there are no other relics of the Disciplines of Geography. Suarez Miranda:  Viajes de Varones Prudentes, Book Four, Chapter XLV, Lerida:  1658. Jonathan Seder Jun 30 2025 at 12:49pm Bill Bryson has a great passage about the London Tube map in Notes from A Small Island (pp. 54-55 in my 1996 Black Swan edition), including this: Here’s an amusing trick you can play on people from Newfoundland or Lincolnshire. Take them to Bank Station and tell them to make their way to Mansion House. Using Beck’s map – which even people from Newfoundland can understand in a moment — they will gamely take a Central Line train to Liverpool Street, change to a Circle Line train heading east and travel five more stops. When eventually they get to Mansion House they will emerge to find they have arrived at a point 200 feet further down the same street, and that you have had a nice breakfast and done a little shopping since you last saw them. Now take them to Great Portland Street and tell them to meet you at Regent’s Park (that’s right, same thing again!), and then to Temple Station with instructions to rendezvous at Aldwych. What fun you can have! And when you get tired of them, tell them to meet you at Brompton Road Station. It closed in 1947, so you’ll ever have to see them again. Gregg Tavares Jun 30 2025 at 6:11pm Obligatory West Wing Clip about Gall Peter’s projection vs Mercator Michael McEvoy Jul 9 2025 at 8:00am Thanks for this . I wish the whole episode would have been centered on this clip. 😂 KMK Jul 1 2025 at 3:25pm As a mathematician, I tend to enjoy Russ’s occasional digressions into mathematics (e.g., a reference to the proof of the Central Limit Theorem using characteristic functions some weeks ago), so listening to a full talk with a mathematician was a delight. As an aside, in mathematics, the word “mapping” is just another term for “function.” It entered English as a translation of the German Abbildung, which can also be translated as “drawing,” “image,” or “diagram.” Shalom Freedman Jul 2 2025 at 6:05am As a child I dreamed to have a kind of complete understanding of the world. One way I thought of doing this was having a picture of the world which contained the whole and was complete This was I imagined the way an omniscient God saw the world. However, I was troubled by a number or problems which I thought might make this impossible. The first was that I saw things were changing all the time, while the picture I thought to have, was single and Eternal. Another problem was that Reality was not comprised simply of what I saw, but also of what I heard and sensed and felt in other ways. The picture, the map of the whole I desired could not be made. Nor could I find a different kind of maps I sought one which show me the way to go securely through the stages of my life to where I wanted to go. In fact, I could not even succeed in getting to the first stage and become the baseball player I dreamed to be. There was no map which showed me where I was to go and so in confusion, I groped my way along not understanding that the trying to understand and know things by reading would have more to do with my future than my dreaming to hit the winning home run in the seventh game of the World Series. Rob Jul 2 2025 at 8:31am “But, I also think that there is a bit–for example, this image generation, all social media people are generating images. Also, ‘Please don’t do that because this takes so much energy. This is the worst thing for the planet.’ Just saying that.” Recent research from Epoch AI (February 2025) shows that text-based AI queries use approximately 0.3 watt-hours – about 10 times less than widely circulated estimates. https://epoch.ai/gradient-updates/how-much-energy-does-chatgpt-use To put this in everyday terms: * 10 ChatGPT queries per day for an entire year would increase a UK resident’s carbon footprint by only 0.16% * A full year of moderate ChatGPT use (10 queries daily) has about the same carbon impact as driving your car to a restaurant and back – once * Even generating 1,000 text outputs consumes only about 16% of a smartphone charge The widespread overestimation for text models makes me skeptical about similarly dramatic claims for image generation. While we don’t yet have equally reliable data for image generation models, if generating AI images truly consumed as much energy as often claimed, these services would be much more expensive to operate. Yet we see companies offering thousands of free image generations, and even paid tiers are cheap. This business model would be unsustainable if each image required the massive energy expenditure some sources suggest. It’s also worth considering how we treat energy consumption more broadly. A single-serve coffee machine uses about 300-400 watt-hours per cup – potentially more than generating an AI image. A robot vacuum consumes 30-90 watts while cleaning. Why should AI image generation be singled out for rejection when we readily adopt countless other conveniences that use much more energy? abystander Jul 6 2025 at 3:10am Nvidia has become the most valuable public company in the world providing power hungry GPUs to the AI companies.  Given that GPU stands for graphic processing unit it is reasonable to think that generating images is more power intensive than generating an AI text output.  We know that the AI companies are using a lot of electricity for something and they have a lot of money they can cover negative cash flow for queries for training and growing mind share in the same way as the webvan, uber, etc provided services at a loss for a long period of time. Sluggh McGee Jul 3 2025 at 9:16am Russ: “hexahectaheptacontakaienneagon.” Paulina: “Well done.” What a delightful guest. Tim W Jul 3 2025 at 2:28pm The boundary problem reminds me of mountain biking if one person has their distance pulled every half mile and another person has it pulled a quarter mile at the end of the ride you’ve gone way different distances. Ideally, you would have the old measure the number of turns a wheel is made to measure the distance and even that would be off Probably a couple inches every 10 feet Greg McIsaac Jul 4 2025 at 4:06pm The title of this episode “the deception of maps” and some of the discussion reminded me of a short story by Thomas Williams titled “Certainties”.  In the story, an experienced hunter gets disoriented on a largely unmarked, wooded mountain that he knows well. He feels the world has shifted under his feet and familiar areas seem strangely new.  After he finds his way back to his nearby cabin, he looks at a map and figures out how he got disoriented, but it takes a while for him to feel fully reoriented with the official map. At another time, the hunter observed a similar disconnect between map and personal experience in two young boys who arrive at his cabin asking for directions.  After they get reoriented, one of the boys shows his hand drawn a map that includes references to where they had taken shelter for the night and where he thought he had heard a bear. In an attempt to correct the boy’s map, the hunter shows the boy the official map. But the boy has little interest and prefers his map that reflects his experiences in the woods. I think it is a story about the value of experiencing the world in all of its uncertainties and with our limitations and imaginations, and the impossibility of capturing such experience in a map. The hunter observes “Something happens in the wilderness, where there are no straight lines, where the land is owned and stabilized and changed only by the weather and the trees, that is unsettling and at the same time intensely pleasurable.”  The closing line is: “There are few dark places left on our maps, and we need that dark, if only to leave behind us all our rigid, belittling geometries, signs, and boundaries— certainties that diminish us, that tell us by the numbers exactly where we are, and that things are merely what they are, not what they can seem.” The story was first published in 1965 in Esquire and later in 1992 in a collection by Thomas Williams titled “Leah, New Hampshire” available in Kindle version from Amazon and Dzancbooks.org https://www.dzancbooks.org/all-titles/p/leah-new-hampshire-the-collected-stories-of-thomas-williams-w-introduction-by-john-irving More about Thomas Williams (1926-1990): https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Williams_(writer) Michael Garrett Jul 7 2025 at 12:05am This was a delightful conversation, and it brought to mind two wise quotations about models which apply to maps. Paul Valéry:—“If it’s simple, it’s wrong; if it’s complex, it’s unusable.” George Box – “All models are wrong.  Some models are useful.” Luke J Jul 22 2025 at 11:24pm I’m late to this episode but I still want to promo the Maritime Museum in Astoria Oregon. They’ve a room full of world maps from various time periods and I find them spectacular! One includes a few sea dragon illustrations. Comments are closed. Enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: DELVE DEEPER Watch this podcast episode on YouTube: The Deceptive Power of Maps (with Paulina Rowinska) . Live-recorded audio and video. This week's guest: Paulina Rowinska's Home page This week's focus: Mapmatics: A Mathematician's Guide to Navigating the World, by Paulina Rowinska at Amazon.com. * Additional ideas and people mentioned in this podcast episode: "London Tube map creator's story told in new play," by Jess Warren & Thomas Magill. BBC News, Sep. 19, 2024. Contains pics of Tube maps' rapid evolution under Henry Beck. Vernon Smith, EconTalk episodes Vernon Smith on Rationality in Economics . EconTalk. Vernon Smith Archive . EconTalk. Gerd Gigerenzer, EconTalk episodes Gerd Gigerenzer on Gut Feelings . EconTalk. Gerd Gigerenzer on How to Stay Smart in a Smart World . EconTalk. A few more readings and background resources: The Seven Bridges of Königsberg. Leonhard Euler's 1736 question about optimal walking times, laying the groundwork for modern topology and graph theory. Wikipedia. A few more EconTalk podcast episodes: Sabine Hossenfelder on Physics, Reality, and Lost in Math . EconTalk. Cathy O'Neil on Weapons of Math Destruction . EconTalk. More related EconTalk podcast episodes, by Category: Technology and Information Transportation, Travel, Infrastructure: Planes, Trains, and Automobiles ALL ECONTALK CATEGORIES * As an Amazon Associate, Econlib earns from qualifying purchases. AUDIO TRANSCRIPT Time Podcast Episode Highlights 0:37 Intro. [Recording date: June 9, 2025.] Russ Roberts: Today is June 9th, 2025, and my guest is mathematician and author Paulina Rowinska. Her book, which is our topic for today, is Mapmatics: A Mathematician's Guide to Navigating the World. Paulina, welcome to EconTalk. Paulina Rowinska: Hello, happy to be here. 0:56 Russ Roberts: Now, I should start by saying that I happen to be a map lover. I always have loved maps. I love different kinds of maps. I'm not a collector, but when I had more room in my life physically, I would save lots of maps that I just happened to love because I like the idea of having them. But I want to let listeners know that this is not going to be a discussion about just the kind of map that comes to mind when you hear that word. There's a little about that, and we'll talk about it. But, what you mean, Paulina, by a map, and what the rest of us mean by a map, is not the same. So this is a very wide-ranging book across science, business, everyday life, medicine, and it's really about a map as a representation of reality and not what we normally think of as, say, a thing that you fold up that you used to keep in your car to help you find out where to go. Is that a fair summary? Paulina Rowinska: Yes. There's definitely more to maps than I thought before writing the book. So, there are very different types of maps, and how I think about the map, and how also many mathematicians think about the map, is representation of reality. So, kind of the model of reality. And, it can be the map--although I don't know how many people still have the paper, folded maps. I think this is less and less popular way to use maps. Mostly on our phones, which is also a type of a map. But then, we have, like, tube maps. I used to live in London, and without the tube map I would have been lost. So, that's also a map, even though it doesn't look like one. Russ Roberts: Yeah. We're going to talk about that. And, for those of you not from London, a tube is a subway in London. 2:48 Russ Roberts: I actually want to start with the old-fashioned kind of map, either the kind you might have had on the wall when you were in school--and you write something very beautiful. You say, "Whenever we open a map, we hold in our hands the results of centuries of mathematical research." And, of course, you don't just mean the kind of maps that we hold in our hands, but the maps that we hold in our heads. It's really a lovely way to think about it. But, I want to start with the roadmap or a map on the wall. I don't think most people think that has anything to do with mathematics. They think: 'Well, yeah, we take a picture maybe from up above and then we kind of crop it.' And, of course, that is not the history of map making. Even close. So, talk about, as an introduction, some of the ways that mathematics had to be used to draw the maps that began many, many, many centuries ago; and then in modern times even. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. So, mapping is complicated. Why? Because the earth is not flat, and maps are flat in general. And, this is a crucial problem. So, in mathematics, there's a very interesting theorem that shows that when we try to take something like the earth--so a sphere--onto a flat piece of paper, there will be problems. Something will be not working, something will be distorted, be it distances or angles, and we cannot get around it. So, this is the beauty of mathematics. The theorem says so. We just can't get around it. And, we still are making maps, and they are still working. But, by knowing that something has to be distorted, we can be more careful when we make maps and when we look at maps. So, for example, most of us are familiar with Mercator Projection. So this is, I think, still the most popular world map. And, well, what's characteristic about it is the closer to the poles we get, the bigger the things look--the bigger the continents look. So, we have this massive Greenland, and then we have, like, tiny Africa. And, I think most of us are aware that this maybe is not exactly how it is in the world, really. But, honestly, I personally, even though I know this, every time I look at it, I don't realize how huge the difference is. It really skews our reality. And this is because of the mathematics. This is because of the way we project the globe onto a piece of paper. So, I like to think about projections. So, that kind of translating the 3-D, three-dimensional globe onto a two-dimensional map. I like to think: Imagine you have a transparent globe with just the continents, or whatever you want to translate, drawn on them, and you put a light bulb inside of the globe. And you have a piece of paper, which will become your map. And, the shades, the shadows of the continents, will be reflected on this piece of paper. But the question is, where do you put this piece of paper? Do you wrap it somehow around the map, like a cylinder around-- Russ Roberts: Around the globe. Yeah. Paulina Rowinska: Or do you put it just next to it? Do you put it further away? And, this really changes dramatically what the map looks like. And, there's really beautiful mathematics behind it. And, we can write down equations or imagine mathematically what this map will look like and what will be distorted, what will be preserved. And, again, what I want to stress is I'm not saying that one of these ways is better than the other. I know people hate Mercator map because they claim, like, racist. Because what it shows is basically the countries that are in the north--they're mostly richer and still more powerful--unfortunately‚ they are shown as bigger. And, the idea is that this map reinforces it. And, it might if we don't understand that it's the mathematics behind it. Because this map, Mercator's map, it's also very useful . It's made for navigation. It's made for navigation. So, if we use it for navigation--well, still the maps we use for navigation in everyday life--so, like, Google Maps--are based on something similar to this map. So, again, it's not that some of these projections are better than others. It's just we need to understand what they distort and what they keep, and think: Why are we making the map? What do we want to get out of this map? And, choose the projection accordingly. Russ Roberts: If you're planning a trip across Greenland, you might want to use a different projection in terms of how much food you take or how many changes of clothing, depending on what method of transport you use. But I think that's a really beautiful image, this image of the globe casting a shadow. So, if you wrap the piece of paper like a tube, like a cylinder around the equator, and you think about tracing the shadow that comes from the light bulb inside the globe, well, around the equator you're going to be tracing basically the shapes of the countries. But, as you move away from the equator, you can see very clearly that the shadow is going to be distorted, just like one's own shadow towards sunset starts to elongate. It's a fantastic image. How big is Greenland, actually? Do you have a comparison that would help us understand that? Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. So, Greenland is still very big. It's the largest island in the world. Okay. Don't get me wrong, it's still massive. But, while it looks like the size of Africa on Mercator's map--I don't know the number. I wrote it in the book, I think it's like 14 times smaller. You probably know better. Russ Roberts: No, I don't. It's a homework assignment for the listeners. Paulina Rowinska: But, the difference is just really huge. Russ Roberts: Yeah. That's very cool. 8:56 Russ Roberts: And, of course, I don't think you wrote about this, but I didn't think about this until we just started talking. When you build a globe, you have to print the shapes of the countries and continents and oceans on a sphere. It's a sphere--even though it's not a sphere, but the globe is a sphere; it's an approximation. That's not so easy either, is it? Or did they do it locally in small chunks so that it's not distorted? Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. So, honestly, I'm not exactly sure how it's done now. But, actually, Mercator started--so the person who created Mercator's map, he started like that. So, he started from the opposite problem. He was making globes, and how they were making it, they were making these wedges, printing--printing, drawing these wedges and pasting them onto a globe. So, it's kind of the opposite problem. And I think this inspired him to think in the opposite direction. And, again, this is all math, because--it's one of my favorite theorems of mathematics that we cannot really translate easily between dimensions, between different shapes with different curvatures. That's the word that we should probably be using. And you know if we--if it still sounds too abstract, making maps--like, honestly, have you ever tried to put a Band-Aid on your knee? It just doesn't stick. Have you ever seen a lollipop? It's not--like, the wrapping has all these wrinkles, and this is the exact same reason. So, once you see it, you see it everywhere. 11:51 Russ Roberts: I want to talk about coastlines. This is something I know a little bit about before I read your book, but you have a lot of rich description of it. This is not, I think, intuitive to most people. Neither is the map problem, by the way. I think if you ask people about projections versus a globe, a three-dimension down to two-dimension, they've heard of it, but they haven't really thought about it being a big problem. They just think, 'Yeah, yeah, it's an approximation.' The idea that it's a mathematical truth is not intuitive to non-mathematicians. And, similarly, what I'm going to say next is really unintuitive: and that is that the coastline of England is as long as you want it to be, as opposed to a number. I mean, surely the coastline of England, the perimeter of, let's say, the United Kingdom--more accurately than England--the perimeter of the United Kingdom, it's a number, whatever it is. You just go out, and you might have to take a bicycle wheel with a stick and you'd roll around or whatever, or you'd take a ruler. Obviously, we know how to measure that, right? And yet that's not a well-defined problem. And that is shocking , I think, when you first hear it. And, at first, I think you think, oh, this is just obviously a trick. But, it's not a trick. So, I thought--you use a beautiful example, and I think it's the same point--about measuring a table with a fixed stick of a certain dimension. That helped me see it--in one way of seeing it. So, use whatever you want. Talk about: why is it hard to come up with an accurate measure of a country's coastline? Paulina Rowinska: So, just, first of all, you said it's not intuitive for non-mathematicians. It's also not intuitive for mathematicians. So, I think that's the thing about mathematics. Sometimes the results are not intuitive. And, as I said, I sometimes am, like, 'What do you mean we cannot measure a coastline?' It just feels wrong. And so, the point we've--yes. When we measure a table, when we measure a straight small line, we know how to do it. Even if we don't have a ruler, if we have a stick that we know the length of, we can just put it one after the other and approximate--it is between five sticks and six sticks--and we know more or less what it is. And, for many shapes we can do that. And, that's kind of how we do it with coastlines. Obviously, nobody takes these days, like, a stick and goes around England, but the idea is similar. The problem is that if the stick is very long, we are missing many of the irregularities. There are some--especially the beautiful parts of the coastline, with all the cliffs and all the inlets and bays and all these peninsulas--we are missing them. So, we take a shorter stick; and we are capturing way more, but we are still missing some. And, the shorter the stick is, the more we are capturing. And, it's the same thing as--no. Depending on what scale of the map we are using--if we try to measure the coast of the United Kingdom using just a world map, there are not many details there. It's not going to be very long. But, if we look at a very detailed map, large-scale map of the United Kingdom, we have way more details. So, we are capturing them, and the number grows and grows and grows. So, for a normal, regular shape, it should converge to the actual number. There is one. Here, there's none. Now, does it mean that all the comparing different countries and their borders or coastlines is meaningless? No, it's not. Because if we agree on the way and the scale of the map we are using, we can make meaningful comparisons. But unfortunately, different agencies, different countries, they use different methods. There's no agreement. And then we can just claim whatever we want. And, I'm sure you've seen some people will say that the Nile is the longest. Some people say that the Amazon River is the longest. And, obviously, there are other issues. Sometimes we don't know where the river really starts, etc. But, one of the issues is it really depends how we measure it. 16:55 Russ Roberts: So, I want to say something, again for listeners who are hearing this for the first time: A coastline in a real-world country is, by definition, not a straight line. A coastline. There are other borders that could be either a straight line or close to it--we'll talk about those in a minute. But, a coastline from space--from outer space, from a satellite--has a certain shape. And, if you take that picture from outer space, obviously, you have to control for the fact that you're far away. But if you're walking on the beach, the ins and outs at the granular--to use a bad phrase, sandy level; but by granular, I mean small--there's as much detail as you could possibly imagine. Which is to say that in some sense, if you think a crude coastline that stretches for, let's just say, a mile, and it's pretty straight. So if you just pretended that it is straight, you get some measure. But, if you wanted to do better than that and be more accurate and you tried to follow each little tiny turn and bend, you start to realize that there's an immense amount of possible space in that bending. I guess one way to help listeners think about it is: inside your body, your intestine should be--I don't know, what--a foot and a half long? How long could it be? But, of course, the thinner it is and the more it's turned back and forth and back and forth on itself, and if you start to say that the turns can be close to infinitely small--which would be true if you were down on your knees with a magnifying glass trying to figure out the coast--you can make it pretty much as long as you want. You can squeeze a lot of distance in there. Is that what's going on? Paulina Rowinska: Yes. And, what I like to think about is sometimes when you go hiking and someone asks you--like, you're trying to estimate a distance--in a straight line? Straight-line distance is usually very short. It is like, 'Oh, in half an hour we'll be there.' But then, it takes you six hours because you have to go around. Or if you've ever driven in a place when there are many mountains and the road really goes back and forth, you did not expect that sometimes if you use a smaller-scale map. It's, like, 'Okay, we are almost there.' But, actually, you have to go back and forth. And, that's exactly what's happening. 19:35 Russ Roberts: And you gave the example of shared borders of countries are measured--they have different lengths, if the borders are not straight. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. So, the person who actually looked it the first time, Richardson, he looked at--I think it was Portugal and Spain--the border. And he's, like, 'Wait a minute. Why isn't the border the same length? It's the same line.' And it's just the countries measured it differently. And, I think we are getting better at it. It's much harder now to find these extreme differences because just countries are agreeing a bit more, and it's usually like one big agency. But, I still managed to find some meaningful differences. And, just to make it clear, when we talk about differences, it's not that the difference is, like, 'Oh, one country is, like, a hundred kilometers more. It's double the number, or triple the number. Russ Roberts: Yeah. The number you report[?] is: Portugal and Spain share a border, and Portugal says the length of that border is--I don't know if this is, when this was done. But, it was 1,214 kilometers, and Spain thought it was 987. That's a massive--it's not like it's almost a whole percent. No, it's more like 25%, as an approximation of what kind of error. It's a terrible error. And it's not an error: it's just a different methodology, I assume, for calculating the distance. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. It's not an error. Both numbers are correct in some way. Russ Roberts: Which is crazy. The last example I want to take of this, which is entertaining mainly for the footnote. There's a lot of good footnotes in this book. I think it's my favorite. So, if you look at Colorado, the state in America, it's a rectangle. It's got four sides, and they're all straight lines, and it looks like they're 90-degree angles, roughly, for the corners. And then you start to think, well, wait a minute, it's not really 90 degrees exactly, because it's curved, and the curvature of the earth is different up by the northern border than by the southern border. Okay, okay, okay: That's going to make it a little complicated. But, it's more complicated. You claim that Colorado has 697 sides. That's more than four. How is that possible? Paulina Rowinska: It is possible because the line drawn on the map was straight. But then, you have people--and remember, we are talking a few centuries ago, when the technology was very different. And, you had people actually going out there in the land and marking the border. And, first of all, people make errors: it's impossible to do it in a straight line. But then, I don't know, you have a little pond that you have to go around, or you have a little forest, whatever this is. And, these are very small differences. You really have to have a large-scale map to see them, so you have to zoom in. So, they did a really good job, actually. Like, it is approximately a rectangle, minus the curvature. But, it is interesting that something we assume--these are straight lines, that's it. In the real world, they are not exactly straight lines. And this, we are talking about place that didn't have many rivers or anything like that. So, imagine in a jungle, it's impossible to draw a straight line. Russ Roberts: Actually, I typically use Google Maps on my phone, but I went and used Apple Maps. Apple Maps actually gives you a globe when you ask for a country. It doesn't just give you a projection on a flat surface. It tries to give a 3-D representation on a flat surface. I don't even want to start with what's wrong with that, or some distortions, but it looks real. It looks like it's well done. And, if you start to look closely and enlarge it, pinch it out with your fingers, you see that, oh my gosh, down there in the south, it isn't straight. If you look closely, it is starting to go down a bit. What happened there? And, the answer is: It's not straight. So, it has 697 sides. And, this is the footnote that I loved. There's a name for that. Is there really? Did you make this up, Paulina? Is this true? Paulina Rowinska: No. No. I put a source in there. This is not my right [?]. I think I saw it in--I think it was Atlas Obscura that reported on that for the first time, so credit goes to them. But, I was like, ' I need to put this in this book.' Yeah. And, there is a name, and don't ask me to pronounce this name right now, but there's a name for this shape, which is completely useless. Russ Roberts: No. It's not. It's great for parties or EconTalk trivia contests. So, I'm going to pronounce it. I'm sure I'm going to pronounce it incorrectly, almost by definition, right? It's a hexahectaenneacontakaiheptagon. Paulina Rowinska: Well done. Russ Roberts: That might be 698 sides. But, according to the--if I pronounced it correctly, it's 697. 25:22 Russ Roberts: Let's talk about subway maps. Utterly fascinating. What did they used to look like in London, and who had this insight of how to make them less accurate and more useful? Paulina Rowinska: Yes. So, when the transportation started in London--public transportation in London or in any city--you have a few lines, a few stations. It's very simple. So, you can easily put it on--you take a geographical map of London, and you put these stations there, and everyone is happy. But, the more complicated the system becomes--now London has a huge system. You can go from one side to the other; you can spend hours on the Tube. And then, it became so complicated because the lines are not straight. They just go around and turn and curve. And people were afraid to use public transport because they were, like, 'Oh my gosh, I'm going to get lost. I don't know how to do that.' And, Henry Beck, who was not a mapmaker--he was, well, draftsman for some engineering company--but in his free time, he was, like, 'What if we did with the Tube map something that engineers do with electrical circuits?' So, a map that forgets about the geography but only focuses on the stations and the connections between them. Because, in the end of the day, that's what we use public transportation maps for. We are not the ones driving the bus or the Tube. We just need to know which station--where to take the line, which line to take, where to get off, and that's the important bit. So today, the map--obviously, this is not the map that Henry Beck drew, but it's a similar idea. And, he was not the first to come up with this idea. He just became the most famous. And, there are other cities where the maps look like that. And, now we have this iconic Tube Map with straight lines. So, they're all vertical, horizontal, or diagonal. The distances between stations--they all look, or most of them look, they're equal--which is not true at all. And, I've made this mistake of assuming that, yeah, yeah, this is the same distance; it's just a short walk. No. Some tube stations are just, like, three-minute walk away, and some are, like, 40-minute walk away. But they look the same. Because, otherwise it just becomes so complicated that nobody would ever use this map--because why would you? And, many, many, many cities all over the world--I live in Boston area now, and it's the same thing here. The map is not geographical, because why would it be? It just serves a different purpose. So, we call these maps topological. And, topology is a very weird area of mathematics, I would say. It only looks at connections within shapes, but it doesn't really care about the exact shape. So, a circle and a square, for topologists, is the same thing, because you just can squeeze it and just elongate it. So, as long as you don't make any holes in it, you're fine. So, that's why we call it a topological map, because that's what it is. It cares about connections and order of the stations rather than the exact shapes. Russ Roberts: And what's interesting, of course, is that you can't superimpose the subway map or the tube map on the geographical map. It literally doesn't fit, which is on purpose, because if it did fit, you'd need either a much bigger map--I don't think you mentioned--you got to write the stations down. So, it's not just it curves around. It gets complicated because there are stations that have--five different lines go through them, and the idea that you would print that on an actual map, well, it seems like a really good idea, except you can't read it because they're going to have to be so small. It's just a fascinating example of the power of approximation. And, one of the themes of your book is that maps are simplifications. You have to leave things out or they're not useful, because a map that had no simplifications wouldn't be a map. It'd be the real world and be too big to fold to put in your pocket. It's a different math result--right?--the number of times you can fold a piece of paper. Paulina Rowinska: Yes. And, that's right, that's what maps are. And again, I keep coming back to this in this book--why did I even write this book? Why it's important to understand, maybe not all the details of mathematics, but the idea that every map maker makes a map for some purpose. So, we need to know what this map is useful for, what it's not useful for, and what is there--and I think this is the most important bit--what's missing? And again, I'm not saying that if something is missing in the map, it's a bad thing. Often, it's a very good thing, because we just need to have what is needed and what is crucial. And then, the map is useful. But we need to be aware of that. 31:40 Russ Roberts: So, I want to talk a little bit about delivery of packages. And so, it's an old problem--mathematical problem. It goes back to--is it Euler [Leonhard Euler]? It's Euler, right? It's not Gauss [Carl (Friedrich) Gauss]. It's Euler. Gauss is in this book. Gauss and Euler--two of my favorite people. I'm not a mathematician, but I have a lot of love for both of them. And, there's a classic problem: You've got to go to a bunch of different places, either delivering things or making sales calls. And, what are the choices of how you can make that trip? Obviously, you don't want to spend an infinite amount of time. You want to economize on time. You have this great number, which is--I think the average--not the average, but some drivers for UPS [United Parcel Service] make 135 stops in the course of a day. Well, how many ways could you make 135 stops? Well, the answer is a lot. You say more than the stars in the universe, cells in the bodies of all human beings, trees on the Earth put together. That's a lot of routes. Some are the worst, some are the best. But you don't need the best. That's another example of the kind of simplification we're talking about. You want a route that's, quote, "good enough." That's close to the best--if possible. May not be, but that's not horribly long. So, how does math play a role in that? Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. So, this is one of the extremely difficult problems, and one of the problems where the number of ways to do something grows very, very fast with the number of stops we are adding. So: with five stops--if I'm a delivery driver and I have to make five stops--I have 120 ways to do that. But then, we grow very, very quickly to numbers that we cannot even imagine. And, bear in mind that every day the stops are different. So, today I order a package. Tomorrow you order a package. And they need to figure out every morning how to do it fast. And, if you've ever seen a delivery driver, they are really fast. They drive with open doors, and so they jump out, throw the package, and come back in. Because that's what they are paid for. That's what UPS, or DHL [Dalsey, Hillblom, and Lynn], or Amazon, or whichever drivers--companies--they pride themselves in that they are fast. So, you need something fast. That, every morning you get a route. You know exactly where to go, which way to go. And, because there are so many ways to do that, the most powerful computer in the world will not be able to compute, every morning, all these routes and spit out the shortest one or the fastest one. Because this would take, like, centuries probably. Which doesn't really make much sense. Now, we also know[?] the driver to do--first, he goes to the furthest, or she goes to the furthest place, and then comes back here, and then--it wouldn't make sense. Right? Like, if there are two stops next to each other, they probably should be served very close in time together. So, you need a route that's good enough. And for that, we are using different algorithms. And, actually, they're all secret these days. So, because this is what the company's success depends on, really. Like, the faster they go, the more customers they can serve. That, you know, it's all about fuel efficiency and the time. Like, they have thousands upon thousands of delivery drivers, and they have to pay all of them, and they probably should pay more to them. So, you know, it's about efficiency. So, we are creating algorithms--so, kind of ways of figuring out the fastest, the most optimal route. Now again: we cannot really find the fastest. But we have very good algorithms that make sure that the route is at least as good as X. So, it might be, like, 10% worse than the possibly fastest one. And, it's good enough. As long as we can get a fast answer every morning. So, yeah. That's, again, mathematics at its best. Also, real-life mathematics. Because in theoretical mathematics, we love the answer. We love the best answer. But, in everyday life, we are using different ways, different algorithms, to figure out the good-enough answers. And, there are so many algorithms to do that, and they give different answers, but most of them give some answer that's just--okay. Russ Roberts: You give an example in the book. A crude algorithm or crude heuristic would be: pick a stop, and then go to the nearest stop to it. That's not a bad starting place for a heuristic or a rule of thumb. Presumably, FedEx, DHL, and UPS use some improvement on that. But, in the example, I think you gave, drivers develop a certain intuition. And, if I remember correctly, a lot of these companies use some mix of math and driver experience or know-how to help design that route. Is that correct? Paulina Rowinska: Yes. So, again, I was trying to piece together some pieces of information, I felt, because it's all top secret. But, yes, UPS had--one day, they decided: We are going to make everything automatic. We are going to optimize that. They paid a lot of money, invested a lot of money, hired mathematicians or computer scientists to figure this out. And, this was a big failure. It just didn't work. And then, the drivers were, like, 'Wait, why are you, I don't know, making us drive at 8:00 A.M. or 9:00 A.M. in the morning next to a school when there's no way to drive? It doesn't make any sense.' So, they kind of know their area better. They know which turns are more dangerous or take more time, and they just know what works, what doesn't. But, also, we want to make it a bit more optimized. So, combining these two, the human experience--the human knowledge, and the human intuition--and the mathematical insights, and it turns out that this gives the best results. Russ Roberts: So, some listeners may remember the interview--I think it was with Vernon Smith--where we were talking about Federal Express, and Federal Express using the--it's called a hub-and-spoke system. But, at the time, there was only one hub, and it was Memphis, Tennessee. And, every package that FedEx picked up was taken to Memphis; and then it was flown from Memphis that night to its destination. And, everyone would always say to me when I would talk about this, 'Obviously, that's inefficient. Why would you make every package go to Memphis? If you're flying a package from Oakland, California, to Berkeley, California, stupid to make it go all the way to Memphis.' And then you start thinking about the fact--and this is a nice way to think about it--we thought about it differently when we talked about it before. But, okay, so let's just use one plane. So let's go around to all the places that people are sending packages, and we'll just pick up all the packages, and then we'll take the plane, and we'll drive it to all the places where the packages are going, and we'll deliver them. Not only would it take centuries to figure out what the best route was that night, but even that night it would take a very, very, very long time. And so, you need lots of planes. And so, what Fred Smith understood is: if you deliver and pick up in 40 cities, you can use 40 planes. It starts in a city: it picks up all the packages; they're all delivered to that airport by trucks. You fly it to Memphis; they're all distributed to the planes going back to where they came from. And, you need 40 planes, which is a tiny, tiny number compared to if you're trying to minimize the distance that a package traveled. So, it's the same problem. It's exactly the same set of mathematical issues, I think. Tell me if I'm right. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. No. I don't think even the details matter so much. Again, it's about how--also, what are we minimizing? We are not minimizing only distance, right? We are minimizing the time, the efficiency, the cost. So, every company needs to decide what's the priority and what's more important. That's exactly--also the point I'm trying to make--is that mathematics, it's one thing on paper and one thing if we want to apply it. And, it's okay if we take mathematics and make a bit of an art out of it. We take some results and leave other results so they suit our application. 42:03 Russ Roberts: I'm curious if in writing this book, this idea of simplification and leaving things out when you make a map, you said you start to see certain things everywhere. Did you start to see that in your own life? Did you notice the necessity of leaving out details at all? Or is there anything else you learned in writing a book about maps? Paulina Rowinska: First of all, when I was writing the book, I had to make so many decisions about what to leave out and what to keep in. And, honestly, it's harder than I thought it would be, because to do that you really, really need to understand the problem. It's the easiest to give all the details and keep the other ones. But, I definitely like looking at, I don't know, infographics and any data visualizations. The most powerful are the ones that have the exact amount of information that the reader needs. And, I remember listening--I think it was another podcast about--you know on the planes we have these leaflets that tell us what to do in case of an emergency. And, I didn't realize how much effort goes into creating them. Because, you want people to be informed, but nobody will study a whole book of all the details. And, I actually--like now, looking at different planes, how differently they look, and to see what they put in, what they leave out, and what's the most important thing. Because, again, we are humans, and there's only as much information we can keep and process. So, the key is how to make us act. Another example I remember: 20 years ago at this point, I visited Germany, and they are really good with recycling. But there were, like, I swear, 20 different trash bins. Brown glass, green glass, white glass. I was so confused. I came from a country that wasn't really recycling at that point, so I was just standing in front of these trash bins and trying to figure out where trash, like, my tea bag. And, I'm pretty sure that since then Germany decided to actually reduce the number of these different bins. And to actually increase efficiency, because, if you are so confused, you're just going to put everything into mixed recycling or mixed bag, which won't get recycled in the end. And, I don't know the exact details of how the recycling works there, but I think it's the same idea: We should serve humans and not try to be the artist and try to be, like, the most efficient. Russ Roberts: Yeah. It's a great example of the importance of imperfection and the perfect is the enemy of the good. I have the same thing here. You'll be in the airport and there's three bins--there's not 20, there's three. And, there's another issue which you didn't mention, but it's obvious, is that not everybody speaks the same language. So, you're going to use some kind of visual representation. And there's no tea bag on any of those bins. So, if it's a tea bag, you're going to have to make a classification decision, and it's sometimes not obvious. And, you find yourself throwing something away in one of the bins or putting it in one of the bins. You have no idea whether you've done the right thing, the wrong thing. Should you have emptied the liquid? So, yeah, no one wants to read a 400-page book--no one will read a 400-page book--about how to throw away trash, how to recycle or throw away something at the airport. So, you've got to use some crude, imperfect system. And, it's really a good metaphor for life, actually. I won't say anything more about it. You can add anything to that you want, and listeners can fill in those blanks. But, do you want to say anything else on that question of imperfect but useful? Paulina Rowinska: One thing I've been learning--so this year, I've been studying science journalism in grad school. And, writing the book, I had time. I really could take my time to go through everything and make it--it's not perfect--but as perfect as I could make it. Now, we were learning to write science news. And it's a whole different story, because you have news , and in three hours or in one day maximum, you have to have a story out. And, if I started to really look into every single detail and the best way to cover the story--and this is what I was doing in the beginning, don't get me wrong, I missed some deadlines. So, this is another example. And both approaches are probably right, but it depends. If we just want to communicate news, we better be fast. If we want to write a beautiful feature story with interesting characters, we can take our time. But, yeah. I think good enough is good enough. And, that's what maths and maps teach us as well. Russ Roberts: This reminds me of a lot of the debates that economists get into and others get into about rationality. I remember--I'm sure I talked about it in the episode I did--I think I did a couple--with Gerd Gigerenzer, the German psychologist. And he talked about this perfect system for allocating patients to the emergency room. There were 15 variables. The doctors had to give a score at all 15 variables and then use a pocket calculator to figure out whether to send somebody to the ICU [Intensive Care Unit]. And, not only was that system outperformed by the three-step heuristic that he suggested or the doctors were using, but they weren't even going to use that. So, to call that the most efficient--it wasn't. But even if it were, the fact that people wouldn't use it means it's not the most efficient. So, it forces you to start thinking differently about efficiency. 48:50 Russ Roberts: I don't think you said much in this book about AI [artificial intelligence]. When did the book come out originally? Paulina Rowinska: So, well, it came out 2024--exactly a year ago, pretty much. Russ Roberts: The Dark Ages. Medieval times. Before BAI [Before AI--Before Artificial Intelligence]. Paulina Rowinska: Yes. Yeah. It's insane how much progress has been made in the last two or three years. I was writing the book, and without ChatGPT [Generative Pre-trained Transformer]. I don't know how I did that. Russ Roberts: It's a miracle. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. It is really crazy to see how the world has changed. And many people actually write in comments and reviews: There's nothing about AI. And I'm like, 'Well--' And, I'm not saying there was nothing happening. In fact, in my very last chapter of out-- Russ Roberts: There's a little. There is-- Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. I wrote about, for example, self-driving cars-- Russ Roberts: We're going to come to that. Yeah-- Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. But, you know, I mean: One part was the progress is just--I think five years ago, people knew that AI is a thing, but nobody was talking about it. Now it's like a Topic Number One. And I'm not talking about in science, but just you go on the street and people talk about AI. And also, there are so many things I left out because it's just one book, and I just wrote--like, maybe there will be a sequel that will be AI. Who knows? Russ Roberts: Sure. It's not a criticism, but I have to make this bad joke: But, the book was written in B.C.--Before Claude [Claude, an AI chatbot written by Anthropic]. Sorry about that. So, I'm not criticizing you for not having anything about AI in the book. But, what I'm interested in is what thoughts you might have on AI in terms of both map-making and mathematics. There are people that are saying now that mathematics is--it's not going to be a field because AI can do everything, can prove everything. It's going to prove every conjecture faster than human beings. I'm skeptical about some of that. But, it is going to have an impact on mathematics, and it's certainly going to have an impact on applied mathematics--which is what we're talking about. We're talking about a mix of theory and applied. So, what are your thoughts on that? Paulina Rowinska: Well, first of all, everything is in progress. So, whenever I hear someone making, like, a definite statement about it, I'm, like, 'All right. I mean, I guess you know better. But I don't know.' My view is that I don't think mathematics will die out as a field, but it's going to change. And it's changing already. So, kind of in the same way that calculators changed the field. Right? And like, so, I think--when you think, for example, about proving a big theorem, often it's a series of proving mini-theorems within it. So, it's like many steps to get to this big chunk. And, I think AI can do some of these steps, or will be able to do some of these steps. They are kind of mechanical. They involve some creativity, but they are not, like, don't require the brightest minds. Now, what I think AI won't be able to do--at least for a long time--is to, first of all, figure out what the steps should be; and second, how they all fit together. And, I think this is where humans set in, to really think out of the box. To think about how to prove it, how to figure it all out. And, I think, right now I think of AI as a very advanced calculator that can do way more than a calculator, but kind of to do the things that usually take more time than not. And, I might be wrong. And, it's getting more and more advanced. So, I think it can prove more advanced things. It can think in a more advanced way. But, I still think for at least some time--and a long time--we'll need the mathematician to really think about how to approach a problem. Which problems are relevant, as well? And, what questions to ask. So, I think still people will be in control for a while. But, again, I might be very wrong. I also don't work actively in mathematical research right now, so I might be missing something. But that's my feeling. If I had to bet my money, I would say AI is very helpful. It will be very helpful. It will be more and more involved. And, I think it might become a bit like a calculator at some point. Just that the mathematician won't spend time computing an integral, but will spend time thinking how to use this integral. 54:24 Russ Roberts: That's great. I was thinking about how people are talking about it compared to, say, five years ago. And I think we're just at the edge of that. There's so many things lately, I've found it to be--it's useful, but it's more than useful. It's kind of fun, and it's kind of exciting that it can be done. And, it's sort of marvelous in the old-fashioned sense of the word 'marvelous'--it's a marvel. And, I'm trying to find an analogy, the way people talk about it. I think this is a terrible analogy, but I'm going to run it by you and see what you think. It's like you're in a country and they don't have pizza, and then somebody opens a pizza place and, 'Oh my gosh, I've never tasted anything'--like, you think about pizza: sushi is somewhat in this category. It's like, it's not a lot of things that are really like it. And, when it comes to your country or your city or your town the first time, it's like everyone's talking about it. 'Have you tried that pizza?' And, soon there's pizza shops everywhere. And, of course, some of them are not very good, and some of them are better than others, and some are fantastic, and people want to try them all. I find myself trying all--I use Claude and I use ChatGPT, which I now call Claudette, because when I have a woman--Claudette--talking to me on ChatGPT, it's so exciting. Or maybe it's like a new pet. You got a dog and a cat, and then somebody says, 'Well, what about an ocelot?' 'Oh, wow. See, that guy had an ocelot? That was so cool.' I don't know. It's something. People want to talk about it. Paulina Rowinska: I think that's a part of it. But, I also think that there is a bit--for example, this image generation, all social media people are generating images. Also, 'Please don't do that because this takes so much energy. This is the worst thing for the planet.' Just saying that. And, it's exciting. Like, I am sometimes, like, 'Wow. It can do this, it can do that.' And, it's fun and exciting. But, I think--so this is like the pizza part. But, I think there's also--it's really becoming a big part of our lives. Probably compare it a bit more maybe to social media, something that in the beginning was like, 'Oh, what is this Facebook thing?' And, now it just became, like, a thing. If you are not on social media, you don't exist. News happens on social media and everything happens there. So, it became really just a big part of our lives. And, I think this is what's happening with AI. But, I also think there's--one thing is, like, a regular user: it's all fun, and it's just fun and games. But then, you have the research part and the use of AI in medicine, for example. This is really saving lives--or endangering lives, depending how it's used. So, I think it's bigger. I think it's bigger than everything else. Russ Roberts: Do you think it's bigger than pizza? I don't know. I don't know, Paulina. But, I think that you're right. I think the analogy would be if you felt pizza was so delicious that you had to have it at least once a day--cold in the morning for breakfast, or lunch, or dinner--so maybe twice a day. And then, people would say, 'Well, want a pizza?' 'No, I already had it for lunch.' 'Oh, okay.' 'Did you have pizza for lunch?' 'No.' 'Oh, great. We'll have it for dinner.' And, you're right--it's everywhere. Yeah. And, it's just the beginning. Probably. There is a temptation, like in everything, to assume that all trends continue forever, so that this particular exponential leap in its capabilities will just get even more dazzling. And, that may not be true. But, it might be. Like you say, I wouldn't bet against it. And I wouldn't bet on it. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. And I think at some point it will become not even that exciting. It will become a new thing and people will move on to something else. But, I think it will stay. I just don't see how we can go back. Russ Roberts: Yeah. You might be right. 58:54 Russ Roberts: I want to close with--you mentioned driverless cars. I think everyone's had an experience, if you've ever used Google Maps or Waze to navigate in your car: All of a sudden you're on the wrong road. You've taken an exit ramp; there were a couple choices; you picked the wrong one. It thinks you're on the right one for a while, and you think you're okay; and then all of a sudden, to your horror, you realize you're on this other one that's veering off at a terrible angle. And, you point out that for driverless cars, the level of accuracy--I mean, it's amazing how accurate Google Maps is, using it in your car. Or Waze. But with driverless cars, the accuracy has to be much, much more accurate. How are they doing that? And, explain why that's important. It's kind of obvious, but maybe people haven't thought about it. Paulina Rowinska: Yeah. So, it is very important because the car has to--so imagine when you're driving a car, you have to think about so many things. You have to think about the road, where you're going. You have to think about looking. Also navigating all this equipment--brakes and everything. You have to think: Is there a child going to jump out on the road and I'm going to have to brake fast? What are the conditions? Is it raining? Do I have to slow down? Oh, there's an ambulance coming, so I have to stop or change lane. All these things. It's one of the most extreme multitasking we do as human beings, I think. And, you have a machine that has to do all that. Now, it's very helpful if the machine at least knows the road very well and also knows what to expect so it can focus on the unexpected. Right? So, if it knows where exactly the road is, what it looks like, where the traffic lights are, etc., etc., it can focus on the child jumping out potentially. So, that's why it's so crucial for self-driving cars to have very, very accurate maps. By accurate, I mean it really needs to know where the curb is on the road. Now, just a caveat--I was writing it two, three years ago. Might have changed drastically since then because the technology keeps changing. And I know that cars with AI are getting more and more--they're more able to adjust to novelty. So they might need--I believe that in the future, they'll be like human drivers: that they'll be okay with going to a place they've never been before. But for now, self-driving cars are kind of mostly working in specific areas, specific cities, when they know the city very well. So, what happens if you have cars that are really going road by road and mapping and taking pictures on their cameras and all this stuff to create this map? And, there's also this kind of problem that you have, for example, a self-driving car that's updating the map while it's using the map to drive further. So it's kind of like a loop. And it's, you know, an interesting, complex problem to solve. So, yeah: I mean, the self-driving cars are getting better and better. They used to get completely distracted by--I don't know, if they're driving by--there's asphalt and then there's grass--they are just, like, 'Whoa. What is that?' Now, I don't think they are making these mistakes anymore. So, they are getting better than human drivers. Because, people are not that great at driving, honestly. And, even though many of us claim we are the best drivers in the world. But, yeah. So, I think that's the importance of these maps--to kind of help the car at least know what to expect. Again, I'm not an expert there, so if I said something very wrong, please leave a comment. Yeah. Russ Roberts: They'll let you know. But I'm curious: I assume this is a satellite problem to figure out where the curb is and in the car itself. And, I assume they've got--as a footnote to what you said, by the way, I took what I think was a driverless car. There wasn't a driver in it. There's some dispute about what kind of overrides companies can do. But, when I was in San Francisco the last time, I took a driverless taxi a number of times, and I loved it. The first 30 seconds was a little bit frightening, but then you very quickly realize it's a much safer ride, at least in its current--again, if it's real, I don't know--but in its current manifestation, than most--many--human drivers that I've had in the past. So, it was really quite a nice experience. But, do you know how they're improving the accuracy of the visual representation that the cars are using? Paulina Rowinska: So, I'm not sure. I think, what I imagine--it's a combination of better satellite images. And, so the same way that, let's say, regular Google Maps are improving. And also, the more cars there are, the more data is coming to improve. So, you know, if you have, like, hundreds and thousands of cars going the same road, they can be, like, 'Oh, this map is not exactly accurate.' Or, 'This is the spot where often bad things happen.' I don't know. So, again, I'm not exactly sure. And I would imagine that every company has slightly different ways, but I think it's just with more data that's coming in. And yes, as you said: self-driving cars actually feel a bit safer. And, I think it is true also because they are much more risk averse. So, if they're unsure, they'll stop. They'll slow down. While people are: 'I'm rushing, so you know what? I am not exactly sure if I can turn here, but I'm going to do that anyway.' So, I think that's the kind of the benefit of them. They are--they don't have feelings. They don't have emotions, they don't get angry, they don't get tired. And, I think that's the huge benefit of them. Russ Roberts: Yeah. I agree. We didn't get to everything in your book. There are many, many other interesting chapters on Columbus, earthquakes, mapping the ocean floor. But, let's close, actually, with the chapter that you wish you'd had. You could have been twice as long. I mentioned we didn't get to cholera and John Snow and the handle of the water pump, but: What's your favorite? Do you have a favorite? Was there a chapter there that you fell in love with, you wish you wanted to do it twice as long, but your editor said, 'Nyeah, you can't do this, Paulina. Sorry.'? Paulina Rowinska: I mean, there were a few. One is I would love to have more types of projections and kind of really look at the weird ones as well. Because there are so many weird projections that are used for one very particular thing. And, I love that. I think this is beautiful. And, another chapter is the one that you actually mentioned about mapping epidemics or mapping crime--kind of maps that really save lives. And, this was a funny chapter, because this is the chapter that my editor, who was always, like, 'No, there's too much maps.' Like, 'Make it a bit simpler.' And this one, she was like, 'Wait, why didn't you put any maps?' And, I was like, 'No, this is all maps.' And she was like, 'Wait, but this is just, like, common sense.' And this, I found--the best thing I've heard about this book. So, I talked about how we can find things, or people, or the source of an epidemic by kind of using something that looks like common sense, but it's actually deep mathematics. And I loved reporting on this chapter because I had no idea about all these things about geographic profiling--so how we can narrow down the search for serial criminals. And I had lovely interviews, and I think I would love to write more, because this is the chapter when we really talk about life-or-death situations, and I think this really brings home the message that maps and maths together are really important. Russ Roberts: My guest today has been Paulina Rowinska. Her book is Mapmatics . Paulina, thanks for being part of EconTalk. Paulina Rowinska: Thank you. Econlib The Library of Economics and Liberty Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA econlib@libertyfund.org About About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Publications Books Articles EconTalk EconLog Videos Resources Quickpicks CEE Encyclopedia College Guides High School Guides Sign up for our newsletter Enter your email address to subscribe to the Econlib monthly newsletter. » Liberty Fund, Inc. 11301 N. Meridian Street Carmel, IN 46032-4564, USA info@libertyfund.org © 2024 Econlib, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Part of the Liberty Fund Network.