# [Planet Money] Lisa Cook and the fight for the Fed

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/08/29/nx-s1-5522330/lisa-cook-trump-lawsuit-federal-reserve-independence
**Atlas ID**: 223304
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.150346

---

Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics President Trump is trying to fire Lisa Cook. What does that mean for the Fed? : Planet Money The Federal Reserve has been under intense pressure from President Donald Trump as he pushes for more control over the historically independent agency. The Fed is tasked with keeping inflation and unemployment under control, and it’s supposed to be insulated from politics so it can do whatever is necessary for the economy. But Trump has been openly saying he wants interest rates to be lower. A lot lower. And on Monday, Trump posted a bombshell. He said that he was removing Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook, “ for cause .” Lisa Cook has told NPR she intends to remain in office , and is now suing Trump. On today’s show: inside the Fed Board of Governors. How realistic is a plan to control monetary policy through loyalists on the Board? We hear from former Board governors to understand what the job is, and what we might be in for. Further listening on the Fed and Fed independence: - A primer on the Federal Reserve's independence - Happy Fed Independence Day - The case for Fed independence in the Nixon tapes - A Locked Door, A Secret Meeting And The Birth Of The Fed - Trump's unprecedented attack on the Fed - Turkey's runaway inflation problem - Should presidents have more of a say in interest rates? Listen free at these links: Apple Podcasts , Spotify , the NPR app or anywhere you get podcasts. Find more Planet Money: Facebook / Instagram / TikTok / Our weekly Newsletter . Help support Planet Money and hear our bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ in Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org/planetmoney . Planet Money NPR Planet Money LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Lisa Cook and the fight for the Fed August 29, 2025 7:12 PM ET By Mary Childs , Sally Helm , Jess Jiang , Willa Rubin Lisa Cook and the fight for the Fed Listen · 22:49 22:49 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5522330/nx-s1-mx-5695677" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images The Federal Reserve has been under intense pressure from President Donald Trump as he pushes for more control over the historically independent agency. The Fed is tasked with keeping inflation and unemployment under control, and it's supposed to be insulated from politics so it can do whatever is necessary for the economy. But Trump has been openly saying he wants interest rates to be lower. A lot lower. And on Monday, Trump posted a bombshell. He said that he was removing Federal Reserve governor Lisa Cook, " for cause ." Lisa Cook has told NPR she intends to remain in office , and is now suing Trump. Sponsor Message On today's show: inside the Fed Board of Governors. How realistic is a plan to control monetary policy through loyalists on the Board? We hear from former Board governors to understand what the job is, and what we might be in for. Further listening on the Fed and Fed independence: A primer on the Federal Reserve's independence Happy Fed Independence Day The case for Fed independence in the Nixon tapes A Locked Door, A Secret Meeting And The Birth Of The Fed Trump's unprecedented attack on the Fed Turkey's runaway inflation problem Should presidents have more of a say in interest rates? This episode was hosted by Sally Helm and Mary Childs. It was produced by Willa Rubin and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Robert Rodriguez and Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. Listen free at these links: Apple Podcasts , Spotify , the NPR app or anywhere you get podcasts. Find more Planet Money : Facebook / Instagram / TikTok / Our weekly Newsletter . Help support Planet Money and hear our bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money + in Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org/planetmoney . Music: Universal Music Production - "Morning Chorus." Audio Network - "Meet Me in the Lobby," "Whole Lot Worse." Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor