# [Planet Money] Why are we so obsessed with manufacturing?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/07/18/1255880057/manufacturing-america-tariffs-apprenticeships-wages
**Atlas ID**: 223316
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.150809

---

Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Can manufacturing jobs in the U.S. help rebuild the middle class?   : Planet Money It seems like politicians cannot agree on a lot. But many seem to agree on... manufacturing. Leaders of both political parties have been working to try and make the U.S. a manufacturing powerhouse again. On today's show, what is so special about manufacturing? Is it particularly important for the economy? And if manufacturing jobs are so great, then why have companies been struggling to fill the manufacturing jobs we already have? For more on manufacturing in the U.S: - Made in America , an episode about what manufacturing work in the U.S. can be like for garment workers and how much they're paid to make each piece of clothing "made in the U.S." - Why aren't Americans filling the manufacturing jobs we already have? - What makes manufacturing jobs special? The answer could help rebuild the middle class - Can bringing back manufacturing help the heartland catch up with 'superstar' cities? - And, for more, check out the Planet Money newsletter's manufacturing series at npr.org/manufacturing . Find more Planet Money: Facebook / Instagram / TikTok / Our weekly Newsletter . Listen free at these links: Apple Podcasts, Spotify , the NPR app or anywhere you get podcasts. Support Planet Money, get bonus episodes, sponsor-free listening, and now early access to new episodes of Summer School by signing up for Planet Money+ in Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org/planetmoney . Planet Money NPR Planet Money LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Why are we so obsessed with manufacturing? July 18, 2025 5:40 PM ET By Greg Rosalsky , Sarah Gonzalez , Jess Jiang , Sam Yellowhorse Kesler Why are we so obsessed with manufacturing? Listen · 22:44 22:44 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1255880057/1269667657" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Enlarge this image Workers assemble Ford vehicles at the Chicago Assembly Plant on June 24, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Scott Olson/Getty Images Workers assemble Ford vehicles at the Chicago Assembly Plant on June 24, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. Scott Olson/Getty Images It seems like politicians cannot agree on a lot. But many seem to agree on... manufacturing. Leaders of both political parties have been working to try and make the U.S. a manufacturing powerhouse again. On today's show, what is so special about manufacturing? Is it particularly important for the economy? And if manufacturing jobs are so great, then why have companies been struggling to fill the manufacturing jobs we already have? For more on manufacturing in the U.S: Made in America , an episode about what manufacturing work in the U.S. can be like for garment workers and how much they're paid to make each piece of clothing "made in the U.S." Why aren't Americans filling the manufacturing jobs we already have? What makes manufacturing jobs special? The answer could help rebuild the middle class Can bringing back manufacturing help the heartland catch up with 'superstar' cities? And, for more, check out the Planet Money newsletter's manufacturing series at npr.org/manufacturing Sponsor Message This episode was hosted by Sarah Gonzalez and Greg Rosalsky. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. It was edited by Jess Jiang and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Debbie Daughtry with help from Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money 's executive producer. Find more Planet Money : Facebook / Instagram / TikTok / Our weekly Newsletter . Listen free at these links: Apple Podcasts , Spotify , the NPR app or anywhere you get podcasts. Support Planet Money, get bonus episodes, sponsor-free listening, and now early access to new episodes of Summer School by signing up for Planet Money+ in Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org/planetmoney . Music: Universal Production Music - "Men At Work," "Motorkhana," and "Electronic Bubblebath" manufacturing jobs Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor