# [PODCAST] The habitat banker

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/12/20/1220579265/biodiversity-credit-spectacled-bear-colombia
**Atlas ID**: 229458
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.840174

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop What are biodiversity credits and how could they save Paddington Bear? : Planet MoneyOur planet is in serious trouble. There are a million species of plants and animals in danger of extinction, and the biggest cause is companies destroying their habitats to farm food, mine minerals, and otherwise get the raw materials to turn into the products we all consume.So, when Mauricio Serna was in college, he realized his family's plot of land in Colombia, calledEl Globo, presented a unique opportunity. Sure, it had historically been a cattle ranch. But if he could get the money to turn it back into cloud forest, perhaps it could once again be a habitat for the animals who used to live there — animals like the yellow-eared parrot, the tree ocelot, and the spectacled bear (ofPaddingtonfame).On today's show, Mauricio's quest to make a market for a new-ish financial instrument: the biodiversity credit. We peek under the hood to try to figure out how these credits actually work. Is the hype around them a bunch of hot air? Or could they be a critical tool for saving thousands of species around the world?Today's episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was co-reported by Tomás Uprimny. It was produced by James Sneed, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money'sexecutive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe habitat bankerDecember 20, 20246:17 PM ETByStan Alcorn,Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi,Tomás Uprimny,Jess Jiang,James SneedThe habitat bankerListen·33:0233:02TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1220579265/1263877269" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageFerns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle captionStan Alcorn/NPRFerns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPROur planet is in serious trouble. There are a million species of plants and animals in danger of extinction, and the biggest cause is companies destroying their habitats to farm food, mine minerals, and otherwise get the raw materials to turn into the products we all consume.So, when Mauricio Serna was in college, he realized his family's plot of land in Colombia, calledEl Globo, presented a unique opportunity. Sure, it had historically been a cattle ranch. But if he could get the money to turn it back into cloud forest, perhaps it could once again be a habitat for the animals who used to live there — animals like the yellow-eared parrot, the tree ocelot, and the spectacled bear (ofPaddingtonfame).Sponsor MessageOn today's show, Mauricio's quest to make a market for a new-ish financial instrument: the biodiversity credit. We peek under the hood to try to figure out how these credits actually work. Is the hype around them a bunch of hot air? Or could they be a critical tool for saving thousands of species around the world?NPR's Climate Week: A Search For SolutionsHow did Uruguay cut carbon emissions? The answer is blowing in the windToday's episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was co-reported by Tomás Uprimny. It was produced by James Sneed, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money'sexecutive producer. This story was produced with support from Internews' Earth Journalism Network.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Source Audio - "Stunt So Hard," "EAT," and "Menage a Moi."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The habitat bankerListen·33:0233:02TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1220579265/1263877269" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The habitat bankerListen·33:0233:02TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1220579265/1263877269" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1220579265/1263877269" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageFerns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle captionStan Alcorn/NPRFerns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPROur planet is in serious trouble. There are a million species of plants and animals in danger of extinction, and the biggest cause is companies destroying their habitats to farm food, mine minerals, and otherwise get the raw materials to turn into the products we all consume.So, when Mauricio Serna was in college, he realized his family's plot of land in Colombia, calledEl Globo, presented a unique opportunity. Sure, it had historically been a cattle ranch. But if he could get the money to turn it back into cloud forest, perhaps it could once again be a habitat for the animals who used to live there — animals like the yellow-eared parrot, the tree ocelot, and the spectacled bear (ofPaddingtonfame).Sponsor MessageOn today's show, Mauricio's quest to make a market for a new-ish financial instrument: the biodiversity credit. We peek under the hood to try to figure out how these credits actually work. Is the hype around them a bunch of hot air? Or could they be a critical tool for saving thousands of species around the world?NPR's Climate Week: A Search For SolutionsHow did Uruguay cut carbon emissions? The answer is blowing in the windToday's episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was co-reported by Tomás Uprimny. It was produced by James Sneed, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money'sexecutive producer. This story was produced with support from Internews' Earth Journalism Network.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Source Audio - "Stunt So Hard," "EAT," and "Menage a Moi." Enlarge this imageFerns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle captionStan Alcorn/NPRFerns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPR Ferns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle captionStan Alcorn/NPR Ferns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Ferns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide caption Ferns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide caption Ferns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPR Ferns are growing where there used to be cattle pastures at the El Globo habitat bank and nature reserve in Antioquia, Colombia. In the background are hills that neighbors cleared for cattle pasture.Stan Alcorn/NPR Our planet is in serious trouble. There are a million species of plants and animals in danger of extinction, and the biggest cause is companies destroying their habitats to farm food, mine minerals, and otherwise get the raw materials to turn into the products we all consume. So, when Mauricio Serna was in college, he realized his family's plot of land in Colombia, calledEl Globo, presented a unique opportunity. Sure, it had historically been a cattle ranch. But if he could get the money to turn it back into cloud forest, perhaps it could once again be a habitat for the animals who used to live there — animals like the yellow-eared parrot, the tree ocelot, and the spectacled bear (ofPaddingtonfame). On today's show, Mauricio's quest to make a market for a new-ish financial instrument: the biodiversity credit. We peek under the hood to try to figure out how these credits actually work. Is the hype around them a bunch of hot air? Or could they be a critical tool for saving thousands of species around the world? Today's episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was co-reported by Tomás Uprimny. It was produced by James Sneed, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money'sexecutive producer. This story was produced with support from Internews' Earth Journalism Network. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra