# [PODCAST] Airbnb's New App, Experiences and Services, Chesky's Founder Mode

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/airbnbs-new-app-experiences-and-services-cheskys-founder-mode/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.jlvUWVgsoK0xxilyI8sMivnQ2GB1SMm6nGJ0N1a1A3zgtYFf1xwb7AC_ipu-40vJssWysI0nVzXDjqi0NUVX3RMtXTNbWoyTISs3okorH8zu2sI-aHW34uFvMuAj2GK2rDRCczqLs3SoOSQKPOWh6oJrknQHflxEJ8ktEJttq_9WhevNUppOtsnE66-oc7DuOZw62Pfjs3F5A6wfdSiKyOgBA6vjG82v2BacGmlMJFXJTnol-g7PLr2Q0rNpZOY_g87G0MRauMmOsaLraynI4otKH1ya1nYbZFfHxQ5SI9RKk6gv59xXuLmsmQ2ReurofQSkR7I4SUDF845N6xV7iw
**Atlas ID**: 229577
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.887607

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirAirbnb’s New App, Experiences and Services, Chesky’s Founder ModeWednesday, May 14, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Jon atAsianometrycontinues to create fascinating videos: this week he explainsHow China’s LFP Batteries Got So CheapandHow Femtosecond Lasers Work. You can be notified of Jon’s newest videos, listen to them via podcast, or read the transcripts atAsianometry’s Stratechery Plus page.On to the Update:Airbnb’s New AppFromBloomberg:After more than a year of teasing expansion plans beyond home rentals, Airbnb Inc. launched an overhauled app that’s not just for homeowners and travelers, but also for personal chefs, hair stylists, trainers and tour operators to offer their services widely. The company, whose name has become synonymous with vacation stays, revealed its new Services offering and relaunched its Experiences tour-booking product at an event Tuesday in Los Angeles. It’s vetted providers to offer 10 categories of in-home services, including personally cooked meals, prepared food items, full-service catering, photography, spa treatments, massages, personal training, hair, makeup and nail appointments. The services can be reserved anytime even without a vacation booked, and many of them include “an entry offering below $50,” Airbnb said.The new Experiences business touts a trimmed-down list of nearly 20,000 tours and cooking classes, curated for quality and uniqueness with an average cost of $66. Think: a tour of the restored Notre-Dame cathedral with an architect from its restoration team, or a ramen-making class in Japan led by an award-winning chef. And similar to the branded stays it promoted last year, Airbnb will offer limited-time celebrity-led experiences, like playing football and having Kansas City barbecue with Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes…“What if people monetize their biggest asset in their life, which is not their house probably, but their time? That’s exactly what we’re doing with the launch of Services and Experiences,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Chesky in an interview ahead of the event. “What it means is Airbnb is not just a marketplace for vacation rentals. It’s a global community in the real world where you can travel and live anywhere and you can certainly use Airbnb every week now in your own city. It’s just going to be a bigger part of your life.”Chesky framed the announcement at the end ofThe Airbnb 2025 Summer Release presentation:When I came to Silicon Valley, the world was excited about tech. The promise of the Internet was that we’d all be more connected, and these amazing tools were supposed to bring us closer and make us happier. And for a while it really felt like they were. But somewhere along the way, something drifted, and we started spending more time looking at screens, and less time in the real world, and instead of growing closer and feeling happier, people drifted further apart and became more lonely. But despite all of this, I am still optimistic, because I’ve seen how technology can bring us together and truly connect us.I’ve been asked this question, with two billion guests, what have you learned? My answer is simple: people are fundamentally good, we are 99% the same, and if this wasn’t true, we would have been out of business a long time ago. Travel reminds us of this truth, because it’s when we are most open and curious about other people, it allows us to see and understand the world and each other. But Airbnb is not limited to travel. What we experienced with our guests that first weekend was about so much more. It was about real connection with real people in the real world. What we’re building is much more than a travel app. It’s a global community in the real world, where you can travel anywhere, live anywhere, and belong anywhere. This is what we’re building, and to think it all started with the air bed.It’s a beautiful vision that, unsurprisingly, is a lot like Airbnb itself; the problem is that I’m not sure that is a compliment. While Chesky romanticizes Airbnb’s founding story and the idea of making friends with strangers anywhere in the world, the reality of Airbnb is often much different: professionalized hosts you never see giving you codes to non-descript condos or houses with endless rules and fees, all governed by fake courtesy and the fear of a bad review.More broadly, setting up Airbnb as a counter to everything that has allegedly gone wrong with tech is an interesting choice, when Airbnb is arguably more emblematic of tech’s recent impact than any other company: on one hand, Airbnb has created new markets that didn’t exist previously, transforming real estate from static assets to much more dynamic ones, and providing a dizzying array of new choices to travelers; on the other hand, the cost of the former has been the transformation of residential neighborhoods to awkward hotel districts, and the latter has entailed creating a massive market and making everything into a transaction.Those marketplace dynamics govern everything: Airbnb hosts have a fixed asset that needs to maximize utilization to earn money; that means they are beholden to a service that brings huge amounts of demand consistently, minimizing the number of vacant nights. Travelers, for their part, want something other than a hotel for whatever reason (families with kids, for example), but still wanta mechanism to establish trust; Airbnb succeeds by bringing these parties together at scale. Or, to put it another way, the route to connecting real people with real assets necessarily first entails atomizing both sides of the market such that only Airbnb can bring them together. Sure, real people in real houses is different than looking at a screen, but it’s arguably less enduring and meaningful precisely because of just how impersonal and fleeting the transaction is.Experiences and ServicesThe more important point about the marketplace dynamics of Airbnb is that it’s not clear why they would extend to the new offerings Chesky announced.Consider Experiences, which Airbnb already tried to get off the ground 8 years ago. In the presentation Chesky derides traditional tourist traps like sight-seeing buses or famous landmarks, and promises that bespoke tours or classes from locals will be much more meaningful. The problem is that bespoke means marginal costs, which are only manageable with very high prices. Very high prices, however, mean much lower demand. Thus, what you actually end up getting are cookie-cutter experiences that can be delivered with relatively low marginal costs, which are exactly the experiences Chesky derides!Notice that this is in fact exactly what has happened with the traditional Airbnb rental: while there are incredible houses you can rent for very high prices, the bog standard Airbnb experience is depersonalized and automated to the greatest extent possible. At the same time, it is precisely because real estate is a fixed cost that hosts are motivated to make it all work; experience providers, on the other hand, either don’t have fixed costs, and thus lack the necessary motivation to make scaled experiences work, or do have fixed costs — like sightseeing buses — and thus have no choice but to offer a standardized experience.I’m somewhat more optimistic about the new Services category; Chesky noted that hotels have things like restaurants and spas, and now Airbnb can offer something similar. I certainly could see a situation where I rent a house with friends and we decide to hire a private chef to come to our Airbnb. Critically, however, the Services offering is tapping into categories that already exist; I can see this being an interesting new customer acquisition channel for professionals offering these services, alongside Google, Yelp, etc.What I’m more skeptical about is the idea that people will use Airbnb more often in their day-to-day life; froma Wired profile of Chesky and the new vision:Chesky explains that historically, people used Airbnb only once or twice a year, so its design had to be exceptionally simple. Now the company is retooling for more frequent access. Open the app, and you see a trio of icons that act as gateways to the expanded functions…eventually, Chesky says, Airbnb will offer “hundreds” of services, perhaps as far-ranging as plumbing, cleaning, car repair, guitar lessons, and tutoring, and then take its 15 percent fee.The fact that end users only use Airbnb once or twice a year is precisely what makes the entire service work; again, Airbnb matches up hosts who need their properties occupied as often as possible with travelers who only need a property once-or-twice a year — solving that mismatch is the foundation of the entire business, and is well worth Airbnb’s fee.The need fundamentally changes when it comes to day-to-day life in your hometown: yes, users need help in finding service providers, and yes, service providers need help in finding customers. The goal for both, however, is to establish long-term relationships; once you have a hairdresser, you want to visit the same hairdresser repeatedly, not find a new one every time. And, by extension, neither you, nor the hairdresser, has any interesting in including Airbnb in every transaction forevermore. In other words, what Airbnb is proposing may end up being valuable, but it will be very hard for Airbnb to capture that value in a meaningful way.Again, the contrast to Airbnb’s core offering should be clear: Airbnb is worth it because they facilitate one-time transactions between a group that makes a single transaction occasionally and is willing to pay for trust, and another group that needs to maximize transactions with people they will never see again. The local services market is the exact opposite.Chesky’s Founder ModePaul Graham wrote last fall about a talk Chesky gave at a YC event aboutFounder Mode:The theme of Brian’s talk was that the conventional wisdom about how to run larger companies is mistaken. As Airbnb grew, well-meaning people advised him that he had to run the company in a certain way for it to scale. Their advice could be optimistically summarized as “hire good people and give them room to do their jobs.” He followed this advice and the results were disastrous. So he had to figure out a better way on his own, which he did partly by studying how Steve Jobs ran Apple. So far it seems to be working. Airbnb’s free cash flow margin is now among the best in Silicon Valley.You probably already read Graham’s piece, and if you didn’t, it’s worth a click. I think there is a lot of truth to the idea that the most innovative companies are best understood as mechanisms to manifest a founder’s vision, and that founders can err by giving up too much control and not getting deep into every aspect of a company’s operations.You can certainly get a sense for Chesky’s desire to control every aspect of the product both in this presentation, in that Wired profile, and inanother profile in the Wall Street Journal, where Chesky explicitly invokes Jobs:When I asked him for names that personify founder mode, the first he mentioned were Steve Jobs and Walt Disney. “I don’t want to ever put myself on the same level,” he said. “I’m more like a disciple. I’m more like a painter who studies Michelangelo. I’m not ever saying I’m going to be Michelangelo, but I believe in that school of thought.”He goes on to say that he admires Jobs and Disney as creatives who “sat at the intersection of art and technology” and that he doesn’t identify as an entrepreneur or a business person. “I think of myself as a designer,” he said. “I’m a designer who has been afforded one of the biggest canvases in the world.”To that end, Chesky spent a lot of time focused on app details, like the icons and the animations, and everything looks great! The problem, however, is that Jobs was creating products, and Disney was creating experiences; in both cases the attention to detail was critical to how many people wanted to buy iPhones or visit Disney World. Chesky, on the other hand, has created amarketplace, and the success or failure of marketplaces is not governed by the details of icons or the layout of apps, but rather by much more blunt instruments like incentive structures and take rates.These are the dynamics that undergird my skepticism of Airbnb’s new offerings. The impression I get from the presentation and profiles is that Chesky seems to think that the first version of Experiences failed because the app wasn’t good enough; I think it failed because the economics don’t work.There was, of course, similar skepticism about Airbnb’s core offering from the beginning; it’s one thing to look backwards and describe the arbitrage opportunity that was available in short-term rentals, and another to have understood that opportunity when Chesky rented out that first air bed in 2007. Moreover, one way to think about the impact of AI is that it will create the conditions for a massive market expansion in real world experiences and services that can’t be done by computers; it’s plausible that Airbnb can leverage its huge userbase into riding a new wave that may now be forming.At the same time, I can’t help but wonder if many of the frustrations that Chesky chalked up to “management mode” are in fact, for him personally, downstream from building a service where one can only guide the outcomes you want, not dictate them; the fact that the romantic story he tells about what Airbnb symbolizes doesn’t seem to match up with the reality of what Airbnb is may itself be an analogy for Chesky’s desire for control in arenas where he has very little.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.20: Product Dreams and Marketplace RealitiesDateFriday, May 16, 2025Rethinking the App StoreDateTuesday, August 25, 2020Playing on Hard ModeDateTuesday, November 17, 2020←OpenAI Restructuring, Microsoft’s Rights, Simo and WindsurfAn Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Media, Internet, and Communications Conference→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Airbnb’s New App, Experiences and Services, Chesky’s Founder ModeWednesday, May 14, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Jon atAsianometrycontinues to create fascinating videos: this week he explainsHow China’s LFP Batteries Got So CheapandHow Femtosecond Lasers Work. You can be notified of Jon’s newest videos, listen to them via podcast, or read the transcripts atAsianometry’s Stratechery Plus page.On to the Update:Airbnb’s New AppFromBloomberg:After more than a year of teasing expansion plans beyond home rentals, Airbnb Inc. launched an overhauled app that’s not just for homeowners and travelers, but also for personal chefs, hair stylists, trainers and tour operators to offer their services widely. The company, whose name has become synonymous with vacation stays, revealed its new Services offering and relaunched its Experiences tour-booking product at an event Tuesday in Los Angeles. It’s vetted providers to offer 10 categories of in-home services, including personally cooked meals, prepared food items, full-service catering, photography, spa treatments, massages, personal training, hair, makeup and nail appointments. The services can be reserved anytime even without a vacation booked, and many of them include “an entry offering below $50,” Airbnb said.The new Experiences business touts a trimmed-down list of nearly 20,000 tours and cooking classes, curated for quality and uniqueness with an average cost of $66. Think: a tour of the restored Notre-Dame cathedral with an architect from its restoration team, or a ramen-making class in Japan led by an award-winning chef. And similar to the branded stays it promoted last year, Airbnb will offer limited-time celebrity-led experiences, like playing football and having Kansas City barbecue with Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes…“What if people monetize their biggest asset in their life, which is not their house probably, but their time? That’s exactly what we’re doing with the launch of Services and Experiences,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Chesky in an interview ahead of the event. “What it means is Airbnb is not just a marketplace for vacation rentals. It’s a global community in the real world where you can travel and live anywhere and you can certainly use Airbnb every week now in your own city. It’s just going to be a bigger part of your life.”Chesky framed the announcement at the end ofThe Airbnb 2025 Summer Release presentation:When I came to Silicon Valley, the world was excited about tech. The promise of the Internet was that we’d all be more connected, and these amazing tools were supposed to bring us closer and make us happier. And for a while it really felt like they were. But somewhere along the way, something drifted, and we started spending more time looking at screens, and less time in the real world, and instead of growing closer and feeling happier, people drifted further apart and became more lonely. But despite all of this, I am still optimistic, because I’ve seen how technology can bring us together and truly connect us.I’ve been asked this question, with two billion guests, what have you learned? My answer is simple: people are fundamentally good, we are 99% the same, and if this wasn’t true, we would have been out of business a long time ago. Travel reminds us of this truth, because it’s when we are most open and curious about other people, it allows us to see and understand the world and each other. But Airbnb is not limited to travel. What we experienced with our guests that first weekend was about so much more. It was about real connection with real people in the real world. What we’re building is much more than a travel app. It’s a global community in the real world, where you can travel anywhere, live anywhere, and belong anywhere. This is what we’re building, and to think it all started with the air bed.It’s a beautiful vision that, unsurprisingly, is a lot like Airbnb itself; the problem is that I’m not sure that is a compliment. While Chesky romanticizes Airbnb’s founding story and the idea of making friends with strangers anywhere in the world, the reality of Airbnb is often much different: professionalized hosts you never see giving you codes to non-descript condos or houses with endless rules and fees, all governed by fake courtesy and the fear of a bad review.More broadly, setting up Airbnb as a counter to everything that has allegedly gone wrong with tech is an interesting choice, when Airbnb is arguably more emblematic of tech’s recent impact than any other company: on one hand, Airbnb has created new markets that didn’t exist previously, transforming real estate from static assets to much more dynamic ones, and providing a dizzying array of new choices to travelers; on the other hand, the cost of the former has been the transformation of residential neighborhoods to awkward hotel districts, and the latter has entailed creating a massive market and making everything into a transaction.Those marketplace dynamics govern everything: Airbnb hosts have a fixed asset that needs to maximize utilization to earn money; that means they are beholden to a service that brings huge amounts of demand consistently, minimizing the number of vacant nights. Travelers, for their part, want something other than a hotel for whatever reason (families with kids, for example), but still wanta mechanism to establish trust; Airbnb succeeds by bringing these parties together at scale. Or, to put it another way, the route to connecting real people with real assets necessarily first entails atomizing both sides of the market such that only Airbnb can bring them together. Sure, real people in real houses is different than looking at a screen, but it’s arguably less enduring and meaningful precisely because of just how impersonal and fleeting the transaction is.Experiences and ServicesThe more important point about the marketplace dynamics of Airbnb is that it’s not clear why they would extend to the new offerings Chesky announced.Consider Experiences, which Airbnb already tried to get off the ground 8 years ago. In the presentation Chesky derides traditional tourist traps like sight-seeing buses or famous landmarks, and promises that bespoke tours or classes from locals will be much more meaningful. The problem is that bespoke means marginal costs, which are only manageable with very high prices. Very high prices, however, mean much lower demand. Thus, what you actually end up getting are cookie-cutter experiences that can be delivered with relatively low marginal costs, which are exactly the experiences Chesky derides!Notice that this is in fact exactly what has happened with the traditional Airbnb rental: while there are incredible houses you can rent for very high prices, the bog standard Airbnb experience is depersonalized and automated to the greatest extent possible. At the same time, it is precisely because real estate is a fixed cost that hosts are motivated to make it all work; experience providers, on the other hand, either don’t have fixed costs, and thus lack the necessary motivation to make scaled experiences work, or do have fixed costs — like sightseeing buses — and thus have no choice but to offer a standardized experience.I’m somewhat more optimistic about the new Services category; Chesky noted that hotels have things like restaurants and spas, and now Airbnb can offer something similar. I certainly could see a situation where I rent a house with friends and we decide to hire a private chef to come to our Airbnb. Critically, however, the Services offering is tapping into categories that already exist; I can see this being an interesting new customer acquisition channel for professionals offering these services, alongside Google, Yelp, etc.What I’m more skeptical about is the idea that people will use Airbnb more often in their day-to-day life; froma Wired profile of Chesky and the new vision:Chesky explains that historically, people used Airbnb only once or twice a year, so its design had to be exceptionally simple. Now the company is retooling for more frequent access. Open the app, and you see a trio of icons that act as gateways to the expanded functions…eventually, Chesky says, Airbnb will offer “hundreds” of services, perhaps as far-ranging as plumbing, cleaning, car repair, guitar lessons, and tutoring, and then take its 15 percent fee.The fact that end users only use Airbnb once or twice a year is precisely what makes the entire service work; again, Airbnb matches up hosts who need their properties occupied as often as possible with travelers who only need a property once-or-twice a year — solving that mismatch is the foundation of the entire business, and is well worth Airbnb’s fee.The need fundamentally changes when it comes to day-to-day life in your hometown: yes, users need help in finding service providers, and yes, service providers need help in finding customers. The goal for both, however, is to establish long-term relationships; once you have a hairdresser, you want to visit the same hairdresser repeatedly, not find a new one every time. And, by extension, neither you, nor the hairdresser, has any interesting in including Airbnb in every transaction forevermore. In other words, what Airbnb is proposing may end up being valuable, but it will be very hard for Airbnb to capture that value in a meaningful way.Again, the contrast to Airbnb’s core offering should be clear: Airbnb is worth it because they facilitate one-time transactions between a group that makes a single transaction occasionally and is willing to pay for trust, and another group that needs to maximize transactions with people they will never see again. The local services market is the exact opposite.Chesky’s Founder ModePaul Graham wrote last fall about a talk Chesky gave at a YC event aboutFounder Mode:The theme of Brian’s talk was that the conventional wisdom about how to run larger companies is mistaken. As Airbnb grew, well-meaning people advised him that he had to run the company in a certain way for it to scale. Their advice could be optimistically summarized as “hire good people and give them room to do their jobs.” He followed this advice and the results were disastrous. So he had to figure out a better way on his own, which he did partly by studying how Steve Jobs ran Apple. So far it seems to be working. Airbnb’s free cash flow margin is now among the best in Silicon Valley.You probably already read Graham’s piece, and if you didn’t, it’s worth a click. I think there is a lot of truth to the idea that the most innovative companies are best understood as mechanisms to manifest a founder’s vision, and that founders can err by giving up too much control and not getting deep into every aspect of a company’s operations.You can certainly get a sense for Chesky’s desire to control every aspect of the product both in this presentation, in that Wired profile, and inanother profile in the Wall Street Journal, where Chesky explicitly invokes Jobs:When I asked him for names that personify founder mode, the first he mentioned were Steve Jobs and Walt Disney. “I don’t want to ever put myself on the same level,” he said. “I’m more like a disciple. I’m more like a painter who studies Michelangelo. I’m not ever saying I’m going to be Michelangelo, but I believe in that school of thought.”He goes on to say that he admires Jobs and Disney as creatives who “sat at the intersection of art and technology” and that he doesn’t identify as an entrepreneur or a business person. “I think of myself as a designer,” he said. “I’m a designer who has been afforded one of the biggest canvases in the world.”To that end, Chesky spent a lot of time focused on app details, like the icons and the animations, and everything looks great! The problem, however, is that Jobs was creating products, and Disney was creating experiences; in both cases the attention to detail was critical to how many people wanted to buy iPhones or visit Disney World. Chesky, on the other hand, has created amarketplace, and the success or failure of marketplaces is not governed by the details of icons or the layout of apps, but rather by much more blunt instruments like incentive structures and take rates.These are the dynamics that undergird my skepticism of Airbnb’s new offerings. The impression I get from the presentation and profiles is that Chesky seems to think that the first version of Experiences failed because the app wasn’t good enough; I think it failed because the economics don’t work.There was, of course, similar skepticism about Airbnb’s core offering from the beginning; it’s one thing to look backwards and describe the arbitrage opportunity that was available in short-term rentals, and another to have understood that opportunity when Chesky rented out that first air bed in 2007. Moreover, one way to think about the impact of AI is that it will create the conditions for a massive market expansion in real world experiences and services that can’t be done by computers; it’s plausible that Airbnb can leverage its huge userbase into riding a new wave that may now be forming.At the same time, I can’t help but wonder if many of the frustrations that Chesky chalked up to “management mode” are in fact, for him personally, downstream from building a service where one can only guide the outcomes you want, not dictate them; the fact that the romantic story he tells about what Airbnb symbolizes doesn’t seem to match up with the reality of what Airbnb is may itself be an analogy for Chesky’s desire for control in arenas where he has very little.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.20: Product Dreams and Marketplace RealitiesDateFriday, May 16, 2025Rethinking the App StoreDateTuesday, August 25, 2020Playing on Hard ModeDateTuesday, November 17, 2020←OpenAI Restructuring, Microsoft’s Rights, Simo and WindsurfAn Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Media, Internet, and Communications Conference→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Airbnb’s New App, Experiences and Services, Chesky’s Founder ModeWednesday, May 14, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Jon atAsianometrycontinues to create fascinating videos: this week he explainsHow China’s LFP Batteries Got So CheapandHow Femtosecond Lasers Work. You can be notified of Jon’s newest videos, listen to them via podcast, or read the transcripts atAsianometry’s Stratechery Plus page.On to the Update:Airbnb’s New AppFromBloomberg:After more than a year of teasing expansion plans beyond home rentals, Airbnb Inc. launched an overhauled app that’s not just for homeowners and travelers, but also for personal chefs, hair stylists, trainers and tour operators to offer their services widely. The company, whose name has become synonymous with vacation stays, revealed its new Services offering and relaunched its Experiences tour-booking product at an event Tuesday in Los Angeles. It’s vetted providers to offer 10 categories of in-home services, including personally cooked meals, prepared food items, full-service catering, photography, spa treatments, massages, personal training, hair, makeup and nail appointments. The services can be reserved anytime even without a vacation booked, and many of them include “an entry offering below $50,” Airbnb said.The new Experiences business touts a trimmed-down list of nearly 20,000 tours and cooking classes, curated for quality and uniqueness with an average cost of $66. Think: a tour of the restored Notre-Dame cathedral with an architect from its restoration team, or a ramen-making class in Japan led by an award-winning chef. And similar to the branded stays it promoted last year, Airbnb will offer limited-time celebrity-led experiences, like playing football and having Kansas City barbecue with Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes…“What if people monetize their biggest asset in their life, which is not their house probably, but their time? That’s exactly what we’re doing with the launch of Services and Experiences,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Chesky in an interview ahead of the event. “What it means is Airbnb is not just a marketplace for vacation rentals. It’s a global community in the real world where you can travel and live anywhere and you can certainly use Airbnb every week now in your own city. It’s just going to be a bigger part of your life.”Chesky framed the announcement at the end ofThe Airbnb 2025 Summer Release presentation:When I came to Silicon Valley, the world was excited about tech. The promise of the Internet was that we’d all be more connected, and these amazing tools were supposed to bring us closer and make us happier. And for a while it really felt like they were. But somewhere along the way, something drifted, and we started spending more time looking at screens, and less time in the real world, and instead of growing closer and feeling happier, people drifted further apart and became more lonely. But despite all of this, I am still optimistic, because I’ve seen how technology can bring us together and truly connect us.I’ve been asked this question, with two billion guests, what have you learned? My answer is simple: people are fundamentally good, we are 99% the same, and if this wasn’t true, we would have been out of business a long time ago. Travel reminds us of this truth, because it’s when we are most open and curious about other people, it allows us to see and understand the world and each other. But Airbnb is not limited to travel. What we experienced with our guests that first weekend was about so much more. It was about real connection with real people in the real world. What we’re building is much more than a travel app. It’s a global community in the real world, where you can travel anywhere, live anywhere, and belong anywhere. This is what we’re building, and to think it all started with the air bed.It’s a beautiful vision that, unsurprisingly, is a lot like Airbnb itself; the problem is that I’m not sure that is a compliment. While Chesky romanticizes Airbnb’s founding story and the idea of making friends with strangers anywhere in the world, the reality of Airbnb is often much different: professionalized hosts you never see giving you codes to non-descript condos or houses with endless rules and fees, all governed by fake courtesy and the fear of a bad review.More broadly, setting up Airbnb as a counter to everything that has allegedly gone wrong with tech is an interesting choice, when Airbnb is arguably more emblematic of tech’s recent impact than any other company: on one hand, Airbnb has created new markets that didn’t exist previously, transforming real estate from static assets to much more dynamic ones, and providing a dizzying array of new choices to travelers; on the other hand, the cost of the former has been the transformation of residential neighborhoods to awkward hotel districts, and the latter has entailed creating a massive market and making everything into a transaction.Those marketplace dynamics govern everything: Airbnb hosts have a fixed asset that needs to maximize utilization to earn money; that means they are beholden to a service that brings huge amounts of demand consistently, minimizing the number of vacant nights. Travelers, for their part, want something other than a hotel for whatever reason (families with kids, for example), but still wanta mechanism to establish trust; Airbnb succeeds by bringing these parties together at scale. Or, to put it another way, the route to connecting real people with real assets necessarily first entails atomizing both sides of the market such that only Airbnb can bring them together. Sure, real people in real houses is different than looking at a screen, but it’s arguably less enduring and meaningful precisely because of just how impersonal and fleeting the transaction is.Experiences and ServicesThe more important point about the marketplace dynamics of Airbnb is that it’s not clear why they would extend to the new offerings Chesky announced.Consider Experiences, which Airbnb already tried to get off the ground 8 years ago. In the presentation Chesky derides traditional tourist traps like sight-seeing buses or famous landmarks, and promises that bespoke tours or classes from locals will be much more meaningful. The problem is that bespoke means marginal costs, which are only manageable with very high prices. Very high prices, however, mean much lower demand. Thus, what you actually end up getting are cookie-cutter experiences that can be delivered with relatively low marginal costs, which are exactly the experiences Chesky derides!Notice that this is in fact exactly what has happened with the traditional Airbnb rental: while there are incredible houses you can rent for very high prices, the bog standard Airbnb experience is depersonalized and automated to the greatest extent possible. At the same time, it is precisely because real estate is a fixed cost that hosts are motivated to make it all work; experience providers, on the other hand, either don’t have fixed costs, and thus lack the necessary motivation to make scaled experiences work, or do have fixed costs — like sightseeing buses — and thus have no choice but to offer a standardized experience.I’m somewhat more optimistic about the new Services category; Chesky noted that hotels have things like restaurants and spas, and now Airbnb can offer something similar. I certainly could see a situation where I rent a house with friends and we decide to hire a private chef to come to our Airbnb. Critically, however, the Services offering is tapping into categories that already exist; I can see this being an interesting new customer acquisition channel for professionals offering these services, alongside Google, Yelp, etc.What I’m more skeptical about is the idea that people will use Airbnb more often in their day-to-day life; froma Wired profile of Chesky and the new vision:Chesky explains that historically, people used Airbnb only once or twice a year, so its design had to be exceptionally simple. Now the company is retooling for more frequent access. Open the app, and you see a trio of icons that act as gateways to the expanded functions…eventually, Chesky says, Airbnb will offer “hundreds” of services, perhaps as far-ranging as plumbing, cleaning, car repair, guitar lessons, and tutoring, and then take its 15 percent fee.The fact that end users only use Airbnb once or twice a year is precisely what makes the entire service work; again, Airbnb matches up hosts who need their properties occupied as often as possible with travelers who only need a property once-or-twice a year — solving that mismatch is the foundation of the entire business, and is well worth Airbnb’s fee.The need fundamentally changes when it comes to day-to-day life in your hometown: yes, users need help in finding service providers, and yes, service providers need help in finding customers. The goal for both, however, is to establish long-term relationships; once you have a hairdresser, you want to visit the same hairdresser repeatedly, not find a new one every time. And, by extension, neither you, nor the hairdresser, has any interesting in including Airbnb in every transaction forevermore. In other words, what Airbnb is proposing may end up being valuable, but it will be very hard for Airbnb to capture that value in a meaningful way.Again, the contrast to Airbnb’s core offering should be clear: Airbnb is worth it because they facilitate one-time transactions between a group that makes a single transaction occasionally and is willing to pay for trust, and another group that needs to maximize transactions with people they will never see again. The local services market is the exact opposite.Chesky’s Founder ModePaul Graham wrote last fall about a talk Chesky gave at a YC event aboutFounder Mode:The theme of Brian’s talk was that the conventional wisdom about how to run larger companies is mistaken. As Airbnb grew, well-meaning people advised him that he had to run the company in a certain way for it to scale. Their advice could be optimistically summarized as “hire good people and give them room to do their jobs.” He followed this advice and the results were disastrous. So he had to figure out a better way on his own, which he did partly by studying how Steve Jobs ran Apple. So far it seems to be working. Airbnb’s free cash flow margin is now among the best in Silicon Valley.You probably already read Graham’s piece, and if you didn’t, it’s worth a click. I think there is a lot of truth to the idea that the most innovative companies are best understood as mechanisms to manifest a founder’s vision, and that founders can err by giving up too much control and not getting deep into every aspect of a company’s operations.You can certainly get a sense for Chesky’s desire to control every aspect of the product both in this presentation, in that Wired profile, and inanother profile in the Wall Street Journal, where Chesky explicitly invokes Jobs:When I asked him for names that personify founder mode, the first he mentioned were Steve Jobs and Walt Disney. “I don’t want to ever put myself on the same level,” he said. “I’m more like a disciple. I’m more like a painter who studies Michelangelo. I’m not ever saying I’m going to be Michelangelo, but I believe in that school of thought.”He goes on to say that he admires Jobs and Disney as creatives who “sat at the intersection of art and technology” and that he doesn’t identify as an entrepreneur or a business person. “I think of myself as a designer,” he said. “I’m a designer who has been afforded one of the biggest canvases in the world.”To that end, Chesky spent a lot of time focused on app details, like the icons and the animations, and everything looks great! The problem, however, is that Jobs was creating products, and Disney was creating experiences; in both cases the attention to detail was critical to how many people wanted to buy iPhones or visit Disney World. Chesky, on the other hand, has created amarketplace, and the success or failure of marketplaces is not governed by the details of icons or the layout of apps, but rather by much more blunt instruments like incentive structures and take rates.These are the dynamics that undergird my skepticism of Airbnb’s new offerings. The impression I get from the presentation and profiles is that Chesky seems to think that the first version of Experiences failed because the app wasn’t good enough; I think it failed because the economics don’t work.There was, of course, similar skepticism about Airbnb’s core offering from the beginning; it’s one thing to look backwards and describe the arbitrage opportunity that was available in short-term rentals, and another to have understood that opportunity when Chesky rented out that first air bed in 2007. Moreover, one way to think about the impact of AI is that it will create the conditions for a massive market expansion in real world experiences and services that can’t be done by computers; it’s plausible that Airbnb can leverage its huge userbase into riding a new wave that may now be forming.At the same time, I can’t help but wonder if many of the frustrations that Chesky chalked up to “management mode” are in fact, for him personally, downstream from building a service where one can only guide the outcomes you want, not dictate them; the fact that the romantic story he tells about what Airbnb symbolizes doesn’t seem to match up with the reality of what Airbnb is may itself be an analogy for Chesky’s desire for control in arenas where he has very little.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.20: Product Dreams and Marketplace RealitiesDateFriday, May 16, 2025Rethinking the App StoreDateTuesday, August 25, 2020Playing on Hard ModeDateTuesday, November 17, 2020←OpenAI Restructuring, Microsoft’s Rights, Simo and WindsurfAn Interview with Ben Thompson at the MoffettNathanson Media, Internet, and Communications Conference→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Jon atAsianometrycontinues to create fascinating videos: this week he explainsHow China’s LFP Batteries Got So CheapandHow Femtosecond Lasers Work. You can be notified of Jon’s newest videos, listen to them via podcast, or read the transcripts atAsianometry’s Stratechery Plus page.On to the Update:Airbnb’s New AppFromBloomberg:After more than a year of teasing expansion plans beyond home rentals, Airbnb Inc. launched an overhauled app that’s not just for homeowners and travelers, but also for personal chefs, hair stylists, trainers and tour operators to offer their services widely. The company, whose name has become synonymous with vacation stays, revealed its new Services offering and relaunched its Experiences tour-booking product at an event Tuesday in Los Angeles. It’s vetted providers to offer 10 categories of in-home services, including personally cooked meals, prepared food items, full-service catering, photography, spa treatments, massages, personal training, hair, makeup and nail appointments. The services can be reserved anytime even without a vacation booked, and many of them include “an entry offering below $50,” Airbnb said.The new Experiences business touts a trimmed-down list of nearly 20,000 tours and cooking classes, curated for quality and uniqueness with an average cost of $66. Think: a tour of the restored Notre-Dame cathedral with an architect from its restoration team, or a ramen-making class in Japan led by an award-winning chef. And similar to the branded stays it promoted last year, Airbnb will offer limited-time celebrity-led experiences, like playing football and having Kansas City barbecue with Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes…“What if people monetize their biggest asset in their life, which is not their house probably, but their time? That’s exactly what we’re doing with the launch of Services and Experiences,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Chesky in an interview ahead of the event. “What it means is Airbnb is not just a marketplace for vacation rentals. It’s a global community in the real world where you can travel and live anywhere and you can certainly use Airbnb every week now in your own city. It’s just going to be a bigger part of your life.”Chesky framed the announcement at the end ofThe Airbnb 2025 Summer Release presentation:When I came to Silicon Valley, the world was excited about tech. The promise of the Internet was that we’d all be more connected, and these amazing tools were supposed to bring us closer and make us happier. And for a while it really felt like they were. But somewhere along the way, something drifted, and we started spending more time looking at screens, and less time in the real world, and instead of growing closer and feeling happier, people drifted further apart and became more lonely. But despite all of this, I am still optimistic, because I’ve seen how technology can bring us together and truly connect us.I’ve been asked this question, with two billion guests, what have you learned? My answer is simple: people are fundamentally good, we are 99% the same, and if this wasn’t true, we would have been out of business a long time ago. Travel reminds us of this truth, because it’s when we are most open and curious about other people, it allows us to see and understand the world and each other. But Airbnb is not limited to travel. What we experienced with our guests that first weekend was about so much more. It was about real connection with real people in the real world. What we’re building is much more than a travel app. It’s a global community in the real world, where you can travel anywhere, live anywhere, and belong anywhere. This is what we’re building, and to think it all started with the air bed.It’s a beautiful vision that, unsurprisingly, is a lot like Airbnb itself; the problem is that I’m not sure that is a compliment. While Chesky romanticizes Airbnb’s founding story and the idea of making friends with strangers anywhere in the world, the reality of Airbnb is often much different: professionalized hosts you never see giving you codes to non-descript condos or houses with endless rules and fees, all governed by fake courtesy and the fear of a bad review.More broadly, setting up Airbnb as a counter to everything that has allegedly gone wrong with tech is an interesting choice, when Airbnb is arguably more emblematic of tech’s recent impact than any other company: on one hand, Airbnb has created new markets that didn’t exist previously, transforming real estate from static assets to much more dynamic ones, and providing a dizzying array of new choices to travelers; on the other hand, the cost of the former has been the transformation of residential neighborhoods to awkward hotel districts, and the latter has entailed creating a massive market and making everything into a transaction.Those marketplace dynamics govern everything: Airbnb hosts have a fixed asset that needs to maximize utilization to earn money; that means they are beholden to a service that brings huge amounts of demand consistently, minimizing the number of vacant nights. Travelers, for their part, want something other than a hotel for whatever reason (families with kids, for example), but still wanta mechanism to establish trust; Airbnb succeeds by bringing these parties together at scale. Or, to put it another way, the route to connecting real people with real assets necessarily first entails atomizing both sides of the market such that only Airbnb can bring them together. Sure, real people in real houses is different than looking at a screen, but it’s arguably less enduring and meaningful precisely because of just how impersonal and fleeting the transaction is.Experiences and ServicesThe more important point about the marketplace dynamics of Airbnb is that it’s not clear why they would extend to the new offerings Chesky announced.Consider Experiences, which Airbnb already tried to get off the ground 8 years ago. In the presentation Chesky derides traditional tourist traps like sight-seeing buses or famous landmarks, and promises that bespoke tours or classes from locals will be much more meaningful. The problem is that bespoke means marginal costs, which are only manageable with very high prices. Very high prices, however, mean much lower demand. Thus, what you actually end up getting are cookie-cutter experiences that can be delivered with relatively low marginal costs, which are exactly the experiences Chesky derides!Notice that this is in fact exactly what has happened with the traditional Airbnb rental: while there are incredible houses you can rent for very high prices, the bog standard Airbnb experience is depersonalized and automated to the greatest extent possible. At the same time, it is precisely because real estate is a fixed cost that hosts are motivated to make it all work; experience providers, on the other hand, either don’t have fixed costs, and thus lack the necessary motivation to make scaled experiences work, or do have fixed costs — like sightseeing buses — and thus have no choice but to offer a standardized experience.I’m somewhat more optimistic about the new Services category; Chesky noted that hotels have things like restaurants and spas, and now Airbnb can offer something similar. I certainly could see a situation where I rent a house with friends and we decide to hire a private chef to come to our Airbnb. Critically, however, the Services offering is tapping into categories that already exist; I can see this being an interesting new customer acquisition channel for professionals offering these services, alongside Google, Yelp, etc.What I’m more skeptical about is the idea that people will use Airbnb more often in their day-to-day life; froma Wired profile of Chesky and the new vision:Chesky explains that historically, people used Airbnb only once or twice a year, so its design had to be exceptionally simple. Now the company is retooling for more frequent access. Open the app, and you see a trio of icons that act as gateways to the expanded functions…eventually, Chesky says, Airbnb will offer “hundreds” of services, perhaps as far-ranging as plumbing, cleaning, car repair, guitar lessons, and tutoring, and then take its 15 percent fee.The fact that end users only use Airbnb once or twice a year is precisely what makes the entire service work; again, Airbnb matches up hosts who need their properties occupied as often as possible with travelers who only need a property once-or-twice a year — solving that mismatch is the foundation of the entire business, and is well worth Airbnb’s fee.The need fundamentally changes when it comes to day-to-day life in your hometown: yes, users need help in finding service providers, and yes, service providers need help in finding customers. The goal for both, however, is to establish long-term relationships; once you have a hairdresser, you want to visit the same hairdresser repeatedly, not find a new one every time. And, by extension, neither you, nor the hairdresser, has any interesting in including Airbnb in every transaction forevermore. In other words, what Airbnb is proposing may end up being valuable, but it will be very hard for Airbnb to capture that value in a meaningful way.Again, the contrast to Airbnb’s core offering should be clear: Airbnb is worth it because they facilitate one-time transactions between a group that makes a single transaction occasionally and is willing to pay for trust, and another group that needs to maximize transactions with people they will never see again. The local services market is the exact opposite.Chesky’s Founder ModePaul Graham wrote last fall about a talk Chesky gave at a YC event aboutFounder Mode:The theme of Brian’s talk was that the conventional wisdom about how to run larger companies is mistaken. As Airbnb grew, well-meaning people advised him that he had to run the company in a certain way for it to scale. Their advice could be optimistically summarized as “hire good people and give them room to do their jobs.” He followed this advice and the results were disastrous. So he had to figure out a better way on his own, which he did partly by studying how Steve Jobs ran Apple. So far it seems to be working. Airbnb’s free cash flow margin is now among the best in Silicon Valley.You probably already read Graham’s piece, and if you didn’t, it’s worth a click. I think there is a lot of truth to the idea that the most innovative companies are best understood as mechanisms to manifest a founder’s vision, and that founders can err by giving up too much control and not getting deep into every aspect of a company’s operations.You can certainly get a sense for Chesky’s desire to control every aspect of the product both in this presentation, in that Wired profile, and inanother profile in the Wall Street Journal, where Chesky explicitly invokes Jobs:When I asked him for names that personify founder mode, the first he mentioned were Steve Jobs and Walt Disney. “I don’t want to ever put myself on the same level,” he said. “I’m more like a disciple. I’m more like a painter who studies Michelangelo. I’m not ever saying I’m going to be Michelangelo, but I believe in that school of thought.”He goes on to say that he admires Jobs and Disney as creatives who “sat at the intersection of art and technology” and that he doesn’t identify as an entrepreneur or a business person. “I think of myself as a designer,” he said. “I’m a designer who has been afforded one of the biggest canvases in the world.”To that end, Chesky spent a lot of time focused on app details, like the icons and the animations, and everything looks great! The problem, however, is that Jobs was creating products, and Disney was creating experiences; in both cases the attention to detail was critical to how many people wanted to buy iPhones or visit Disney World. Chesky, on the other hand, has created amarketplace, and the success or failure of marketplaces is not governed by the details of icons or the layout of apps, but rather by much more blunt instruments like incentive structures and take rates.These are the dynamics that undergird my skepticism of Airbnb’s new offerings. The impression I get from the presentation and profiles is that Chesky seems to think that the first version of Experiences failed because the app wasn’t good enough; I think it failed because the economics don’t work.There was, of course, similar skepticism about Airbnb’s core offering from the beginning; it’s one thing to look backwards and describe the arbitrage opportunity that was available in short-term rentals, and another to have understood that opportunity when Chesky rented out that first air bed in 2007. Moreover, one way to think about the impact of AI is that it will create the conditions for a massive market expansion in real world experiences and services that can’t be done by computers; it’s plausible that Airbnb can leverage its huge userbase into riding a new wave that may now be forming.At the same time, I can’t help but wonder if many of the frustrations that Chesky chalked up to “management mode” are in fact, for him personally, downstream from building a service where one can only guide the outcomes you want, not dictate them; the fact that the romantic story he tells about what Airbnb symbolizes doesn’t seem to match up with the reality of what Airbnb is may itself be an analogy for Chesky’s desire for control in arenas where he has very little.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Jon atAsianometrycontinues to create fascinating videos: this week he explainsHow China’s LFP Batteries Got So CheapandHow Femtosecond Lasers Work. You can be notified of Jon’s newest videos, listen to them via podcast, or read the transcripts atAsianometry’s Stratechery Plus page. After more than a year of teasing expansion plans beyond home rentals, Airbnb Inc. launched an overhauled app that’s not just for homeowners and travelers, but also for personal chefs, hair stylists, trainers and tour operators to offer their services widely. The company, whose name has become synonymous with vacation stays, revealed its new Services offering and relaunched its Experiences tour-booking product at an event Tuesday in Los Angeles. It’s vetted providers to offer 10 categories of in-home services, including personally cooked meals, prepared food items, full-service catering, photography, spa treatments, massages, personal training, hair, makeup and nail appointments. The services can be reserved anytime even without a vacation booked, and many of them include “an entry offering below $50,” Airbnb said. The new Experiences business touts a trimmed-down list of nearly 20,000 tours and cooking classes, curated for quality and uniqueness with an average cost of $66. Think: a tour of the restored Notre-Dame cathedral with an architect from its restoration team, or a ramen-making class in Japan led by an award-winning chef. And similar to the branded stays it promoted last year, Airbnb will offer limited-time celebrity-led experiences, like playing football and having Kansas City barbecue with Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes… “What if people monetize their biggest asset in their life, which is not their house probably, but their time? That’s exactly what we’re doing with the launch of Services and Experiences,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Chesky in an interview ahead of the event. “What it means is Airbnb is not just a marketplace for vacation rentals. It’s a global community in the real world where you can travel and live anywhere and you can certainly use Airbnb every week now in your own city. It’s just going to be a bigger part of your life.” When I came to Silicon Valley, the world was excited about tech. The promise of the Internet was that we’d all be more connected, and these amazing tools were supposed to bring us closer and make us happier. And for a while it really felt like they were. But somewhere along the way, something drifted, and we started spending more time looking at screens, and less time in the real world, and instead of growing closer and feeling happier, people drifted further apart and became more lonely. But despite all of this, I am still optimistic, because I’ve seen how technology can bring us together and truly connect us. I’ve been asked this question, with two billion guests, what have you learned? My answer is simple: people are fundamentally good, we are 99% the same, and if this wasn’t true, we would have been out of business a long time ago. Travel reminds us of this truth, because it’s when we are most open and curious about other people, it allows us to see and understand the world and each other. But Airbnb is not limited to travel. What we experienced with our guests that first weekend was about so much more. It was about real connection with real people in the real world. What we’re building is much more than a travel app. It’s a global community in the real world, where you can travel anywhere, live anywhere, and belong anywhere. This is what we’re building, and to think it all started with the air bed. It’s a beautiful vision that, unsurprisingly, is a lot like Airbnb itself; the problem is that I’m not sure that is a compliment. While Chesky romanticizes Airbnb’s founding story and the idea of making friends with strangers anywhere in the world, the reality of Airbnb is often much different: professionalized hosts you never see giving you codes to non-descript condos or houses with endless rules and fees, all governed by fake courtesy and the fear of a bad review. More broadly, setting up Airbnb as a counter to everything that has allegedly gone wrong with tech is an interesting choice, when Airbnb is arguably more emblematic of tech’s recent impact than any other company: on one hand, Airbnb has created new markets that didn’t exist previously, transforming real estate from static assets to much more dynamic ones, and providing a dizzying array of new choices to travelers; on the other hand, the cost of the former has been the transformation of residential neighborhoods to awkward hotel districts, and the latter has entailed creating a massive market and making everything into a transaction. Those marketplace dynamics govern everything: Airbnb hosts have a fixed asset that needs to maximize utilization to earn money; that means they are beholden to a service that brings huge amounts of demand consistently, minimizing the number of vacant nights. Travelers, for their part, want something other than a hotel for whatever reason (families with kids, for example), but still wanta mechanism to establish trust; Airbnb succeeds by bringing these parties together at scale. Or, to put it another way, the route to connecting real people with real assets necessarily first entails atomizing both sides of the market such that only Airbnb can bring them together. Sure, real people in real houses is different than looking at a screen, but it’s arguably less enduring and meaningful precisely because of just how impersonal and fleeting the transaction is. Consider Experiences, which Airbnb already tried to get off the ground 8 years ago. In the presentation Chesky derides traditional tourist traps like sight-seeing buses or famous landmarks, and promises that bespoke tours or classes from locals will be much more meaningful. The problem is that bespoke means marginal costs, which are only manageable with very high prices. Very high prices, however, mean much lower demand. Thus, what you actually end up getting are cookie-cutter experiences that can be delivered with relatively low marginal costs, which are exactly the experiences Chesky derides! Notice that this is in fact exactly what has happened with the traditional Airbnb rental: while there are incredible houses you can rent for very high prices, the bog standard Airbnb experience is depersonalized and automated to the greatest extent possible. At the same time, it is precisely because real estate is a fixed cost that hosts are motivated to make it all work; experience providers, on the other hand, either don’t have fixed costs, and thus lack the necessary motivation to make scaled experiences work, or do have fixed costs — like sightseeing buses — and thus have no choice but to offer a standardized experience. I’m somewhat more optimistic about the new Services category; Chesky noted that hotels have things like restaurants and spas, and now Airbnb can offer something similar. I certainly could see a situation where I rent a house with friends and we decide to hire a private chef to come to our Airbnb. Critically, however, the Services offering is tapping into categories that already exist; I can see this being an interesting new customer acquisition channel for professionals offering these services, alongside Google, Yelp, etc. Chesky explains that historically, people used Airbnb only once or twice a year, so its design had to be exceptionally simple. Now the company is retooling for more frequent access. Open the app, and you see a trio of icons that act as gateways to the expanded functions…eventually, Chesky says, Airbnb will offer “hundreds” of services, perhaps as far-ranging as plumbing, cleaning, car repair, guitar lessons, and tutoring, and then take its 15 percent fee. The fact that end users only use Airbnb once or twice a year is precisely what makes the entire service work; again, Airbnb matches up hosts who need their properties occupied as often as possible with travelers who only need a property once-or-twice a year — solving that mismatch is the foundation of the entire business, and is well worth Airbnb’s fee. The need fundamentally changes when it comes to day-to-day life in your hometown: yes, users need help in finding service providers, and yes, service providers need help in finding customers. The goal for both, however, is to establish long-term relationships; once you have a hairdresser, you want to visit the same hairdresser repeatedly, not find a new one every time. And, by extension, neither you, nor the hairdresser, has any interesting in including Airbnb in every transaction forevermore. In other words, what Airbnb is proposing may end up being valuable, but it will be very hard for Airbnb to capture that value in a meaningful way. Again, the contrast to Airbnb’s core offering should be clear: Airbnb is worth it because they facilitate one-time transactions between a group that makes a single transaction occasionally and is willing to pay for trust, and another group that needs to maximize transactions with people they will never see again. The local services market is the exact opposite. The theme of Brian’s talk was that the conventional wisdom about how to run larger companies is mistaken. As Airbnb grew, well-meaning people advised him that he had to run the company in a certain way for it to scale. Their advice could be optimistically summarized as “hire good people and give them room to do their jobs.” He followed this advice and the results were disastrous. So he had to figure out a better way on his own, which he did partly by studying how Steve Jobs ran Apple. So far it seems to be working. Airbnb’s free cash flow margin is now among the best in Silicon Valley. You probably already read Graham’s piece, and if you didn’t, it’s worth a click. I think there is a lot of truth to the idea that the most innovative companies are best understood as mechanisms to manifest a founder’s vision, and that founders can err by giving up too much control and not getting deep into every aspect of a company’s operations. You can certainly get a sense for Chesky’s desire to control every aspect of the product both in this presentation, in that Wired profile, and inanother profile in the Wall Street Journal, where Chesky explicitly invokes Jobs: When I asked him for names that personify founder mode, the first he mentioned were Steve Jobs and Walt Disney. “I don’t want to ever put myself on the same level,” he said. “I’m more like a disciple. I’m more like a painter who studies Michelangelo. I’m not ever saying I’m going to be Michelangelo, but I believe in that school of thought.” He goes on to say that he admires Jobs and Disney as creatives who “sat at the intersection of art and technology” and that he doesn’t identify as an entrepreneur or a business person. “I think of myself as a designer,” he said. “I’m a designer who has been afforded one of the biggest canvases in the world.” To that end, Chesky spent a lot of time focused on app details, like the icons and the animations, and everything looks great! The problem, however, is that Jobs was creating products, and Disney was creating experiences; in both cases the attention to detail was critical to how many people wanted to buy iPhones or visit Disney World. Chesky, on the other hand, has created amarketplace, and the success or failure of marketplaces is not governed by the details of icons or the layout of apps, but rather by much more blunt instruments like incentive structures and take rates. These are the dynamics that undergird my skepticism of Airbnb’s new offerings. The impression I get from the presentation and profiles is that Chesky seems to think that the first version of Experiences failed because the app wasn’t good enough; I think it failed because the economics don’t work. There was, of course, similar skepticism about Airbnb’s core offering from the beginning; it’s one thing to look backwards and describe the arbitrage opportunity that was available in short-term rentals, and another to have understood that opportunity when Chesky rented out that first air bed in 2007. Moreover, one way to think about the impact of AI is that it will create the conditions for a massive market expansion in real world experiences and services that can’t be done by computers; it’s plausible that Airbnb can leverage its huge userbase into riding a new wave that may now be forming. At the same time, I can’t help but wonder if many of the frustrations that Chesky chalked up to “management mode” are in fact, for him personally, downstream from building a service where one can only guide the outcomes you want, not dictate them; the fact that the romantic story he tells about what Airbnb symbolizes doesn’t seem to match up with the reality of what Airbnb is may itself be an analogy for Chesky’s desire for control in arenas where he has very little. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025