# [PODCAST] Apple Earnings, Wearables and Vision Pro, AI Leverage

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/apple-earnings-wearables-and-vision-pro-ai-leverage/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.U7aTsM0390A_EkFTPlm_-p2SPKBZN2dKMkbjorfr8riS4izpbMfR8JwhknTeCDyYkfm--OLkpAvFqAVKG0NtZiSO-7Pu_58ew-K6YadsmcPNvKPmgLBBHtn1kjSOx1yBoepAgiUPGuMnieu9MiF8iaVO_Iz42Ovg2lse5nprySvMguJBZ-P45kpaZjl_VCsFPYAh74WIa8lpstbIO28m8tdgzYvPWdyzB8o4Rhxvc7iJ4owyKGt6TB1ruDMbghqfLqhG0w-HrD07MLwxWVws5jgSog2kmi66HFCQuEm6hph3YuhE5Td3ynHymxc76tPX9DJt2ptmByIdf7DcPqtFXw
**Atlas ID**: 229760
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.972692

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirApple Earnings, Wearables and Vision Pro, AI LeverageMonday, May 6, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are in full swing — I highly recommend you watch the Denver Nuggets-Minnesota Timberwolves series, if you are even a casual basketball fan — andGreatest of All Talkis covering everything as it happens, including two episodes over the weekend. Check it out using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Apple’s revenue declined for the fifth time in the past six quarters, dragged down by ailing iPhone sales and new competition from smartphone rivals in China. Still, shares of Apple rose more than 6% in premarket trading, after the company authorized $110 billion in stock buybacks and signaled that the current quarter is likely to see revenue growth. Also, while sales and profits fell in the March quarter, the numbers were slightly better than analyst expectations.Apple is struggling on a number of fronts. The company’s single most important business — the iPhone — has faced sluggish growth. In recent years, Apple has seen success by steering consumers toward its more expensive “Pro”-designated phones. Its latest iPhone 15 Pro Max was its most expensive ever with a starting price of $1,200. But this premium strategy isn’t propping up overall revenue as much as it did in the past.Apple’s biggest problem was actually COVID:as I noted last quarterit was in fall 2022 that COVID finally spread throughout China, which significantly impacted iPhone production; that meant that last quarter looked particularly good year-over-year. As for this quarter, CEO Tim Cook saidon the earnings call:Keep in mind, as we described on the last call, in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish iPhone channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the December quarter COVID-related supply disruptions on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max. We estimate this one-time impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter revenue last year. If we removed this from last year’s results, our March quarter total company revenue this year would have grown.This is a legitimate excuse! This doesn’t, to be sure, change the fundamental Apple story: most of the products it sells are replacing Apple products people already own, and that replacement cycle elongates over time; services, meanwhile, continues to grow because people are still using Apple products, even if they aren’t replacing them as frequently.Greater China, meanwhile, was down year-over-year, but, as Cook emphasized, it was downlessthan last quarter, and he reported that iPhone sales in mainland China actually grew:What we saw was an acceleration from Q1, and it was driven by iPhone. And iPhone in mainland China, before we adjust for this $5 billion impact that we talked about earlier, did grow. That means the other products didn’t fare as well, and so we clearly have work there to do. I think it has been and is, through last quarter, the most competitive market in the world. And so I wouldn’t say anything other than that. I’ve said that before, and I believe that it was last quarter as well. But if you step back from the 90-day cycle, what I see is a lot of people moving into the middle class. We try to serve customers very well there and have a lot of happy customers, and you can kind of see that in the latest store opening over there, and so I continue to feel very optimistic.That line about other products struggling is interesting: Apple’s biggest differentiator is its ecosystem broadly; if Chinese customers are not buying non-iPhone Apple products that suggests that Apple is struggling to bring its ecosystem to bear in a way that builds a long-term moat around the iPhone, somethingit has always struggled with in China. Of course this could just be a reflection of consumer weakness in China as well: phones are essential, everything else is more easily put off.Wearables and Vision ProFrom CFO Luca Maestri’s prepared remarks:Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year, due to a difficult launch compare. Last year, we had the continued benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And customer satisfaction was recently measured at 95% in the U.S.I think that the Wearables category is underrated by Apple observers, particularly those complaining that the company doesn’t innovate anymore; over the last decade the company has launched two massive new products — Apple Watch and AirPods — that are huge businesses in their own right. They also appear to be products that people don’t upgrade too often, which makes sense: part of the reality of wearables is that they more augment your iPhone than stand by themselves, which, by extension, means they just focus on doing a couple of things well. That focus, though, means there isn’t much room for major new features that drive upgrades: people use their watches until the battery wears out, and their AirPods until they lose them.There was no color, meanwhile, on Vision Pro sales, but they obviously weren’t material enough to change the trajectory of the segment as a whole; Neil Cybart estimated atAbove Avalonthat Apple sold around 55,000-60,000 Vision Pros in the quarter, which, at the base price of $3,499 is around $200 million in revenue. It speaks to Apple’s scale that that is only about 2.5% of the total revenue generated by AirPods and Watches alone — and they were down 10%!Cook and Maestri, meanwhile, once again mostly talked about the enterprise opportunity; from Cook’s prepared remarks:Of course, this past quarter we were thrilled to launch Apple Vision Pro, and it has been so wonderful to hear from people who now get to experience the magic of spatial computing. They describe the impossible becoming possible right before their eyes, and they share their amazement and their emotions about what they can do now, whether it’s reliving their most treasured memories or having a movie theater experience right in their living room.It’s also great to see the enthusiasm from the enterprise market. For example, more than half of the Fortune 100 companies have already bought Apple Vision Pro units and are exploring innovative ways to use it to do things that weren’t possible before, and this is just the beginning.Maestri added:Since the launch of Vision Pro last quarter, many leading enterprise customers have been investing in this amazing new product to bring spatial computing apps and experiences to life. We are seeing so many compelling use cases, from aircraft engine maintenance training at KLM Airlines, to real-time team collaboration for racing at Porsche, to immersive kitchen design at Lowe’s. We couldn’t be more excited about the spatial computing opportunity in Enterprise.I made the case that enterprise may be the best route to market for VRback in 2021, andreiterated the argument in the context of the Vision Proin February. To that end, I thought this question-and-answer was interesting:Tim, for enterprise specifically, what are some of the top two or three use cases on Vision Pro you’re hearing most excitement?Cook:You know, the great thing is I’m hearing about so many of them. I wouldn’t say that one has emerged as the top right now. The most impressive thing is that similar to the way people use a Mac, you use it for everything. People are using it for many different things in enterprise, and that varies from field service, to training, to health care related things like preparing a doctor for pre-op surgery or advanced imaging, control centers, and so it’s an enormous number of different verticals, and our focus is on growing that ecosystem and getting more apps and more and more enterprises engaged, and the event that we had recently, I can’t overstate the enthusiasm in the room. It was extraordinary, and so we’re off to a good start, I think, with enterprise.That’s not very convincing, to be honest, but perhaps encouraging?When I first tried the Apple VisionI made the case that it could be the future of the Mac;by the next dayI had remembered that that would never happen as long as it was locked down like iOS, and indeed, my biggest disappointmentin my reviewwere the productivity-related aspects of the device. It would certainly be something — and exciting, from my perspective — if the enterprise market ends up pulling more Mac-like functionality out of Apple simply because they are the only customers who, at this stage of VR, are willing to pay for headsets that don’t really do gaming.AI LeverageIf you wanted to be cynical, you might point out that one reason to be concerned about Apple is that the biggest talking point for its executives were features that haven’t yet launched; from Cook’s prepared remarks:We continue to feel very bullish about our opportunity in generative AI. We are making significant investments, and we’re looking forward to sharing some very exciting things with our customers soon. We believe in the transformative power and promise of AI, and we believe we have advantages that will differentiate us in this new era, including Apple’s unique combination of seamless hardware, software, and services integration, groundbreaking Apple Silicon with our industry-leading neural engines, and our unwavering focus on privacy, which underpins everything we create. As we push innovation forward, we continue to manage thoughtfully and deliberately through an uneven macroeconomic environment and remain focused on putting our users at the center of everything we do.This certainly points to Apple’s primary focus being on-device AI capabilities that leverage its own chips; again, though, it’s notable that Cook is basically pre-announcing topics from WWDC. Speaking of existing products, though, this line amused me:Turning to Mac, March quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% from a year ago. We had an amazing launch in early March with the new 13- and 15-inch MacBook Air. The world’s most popular laptop is the best consumer laptop for AI, with breakthrough performance of the M3 chip and its even more powerful neural engine.Who knew the MacBook Air was an AI computer (particularly since the base model only has 8GB of RAM)! To that end, I appreciated this question from an analyst:Tim, you’ve obviously mentioned your excitement around generative AI multiple times. I’m just curious how Apple is thinking about the different ways in which you can monetize this technology, because historically software upgrades haven’t been a big factor in driving product cycles? And so, could AI be potentially different? How could that impact replacement cycles? Is there any Services angle you’d be thinking? Any early color that you can share on that.Cook:I don’t wanna get in front of our announcements, obviously. I would just say that we see generative AI as a very key opportunity across our products and we believe that we have advantages that set us apart there, and we’ll be talking more about it as we go through the the weeks ahead.My suspicion (that I have noted a couple of times onDithering) is not only thatApple’s AI efforts will be focused on local models, but that some number (if not all) of those features will only be available on the newest devices. This is in part legitimate — newer devices have newer chips that have more and more capable neural engines and GPU cores — and also could drive new upgrade cycles; given the comments about the MacBook Air being an AI computer I wouldn’t be surprised if the cut-off is the M3 (and the A17 for iPhones).It could be something even more modern, though, at least on the iPhone side: rumor has it thatall new iPhones will have 8GB of RAM, which would be sufficient to run some permutations ofthe set of open source models the company released a couple of weeks ago(which, it must be noted, have pretty poor evaluation scores); what will be very interesting to watch is if Apple starts offering higher-end iPhones with more RAM than the base models, with the promise that they can run more capable models (and drive higher prices per device). I’m skeptical, as the company has never publicly differentiated iPhones and iPads in this way, but then again, it has never has had such a compelling reason to.One final note: Apple’s margin was down a bit (albeit still high historically), and Maestri noted:We’re guiding to, again, to a very high level of gross margins, 45.5% to 46.5%. Within that guidance, we expect memory to be a slight headwind, not a very large one, but a slight headwindSamsung Electronics reportedthat memory chip sales doubled year-over-year;SK Hynixsmashed expectaions as well, and forecasted that there may be memory shortages for things like smartphones by the end of the year. Or, to put it another way, Apple will be paying for the AI hype cycle regardless; the appropriate question is how they might monetize it, and driving product upgrades (with more memory!) is the most obvious path.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedApple’s ErrorsDateMonday, January 7, 20192025.06: From DeepSeek to Deep ResearchDateFriday, February 7, 20252025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 2025←An Interview with Databricks CEO Ali Ghodsi About Building Enterprise AITSMC Earnings, TSMC’s Pricing Mistake, Intel v. TSMC→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Apple Earnings, Wearables and Vision Pro, AI LeverageMonday, May 6, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are in full swing — I highly recommend you watch the Denver Nuggets-Minnesota Timberwolves series, if you are even a casual basketball fan — andGreatest of All Talkis covering everything as it happens, including two episodes over the weekend. Check it out using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Apple’s revenue declined for the fifth time in the past six quarters, dragged down by ailing iPhone sales and new competition from smartphone rivals in China. Still, shares of Apple rose more than 6% in premarket trading, after the company authorized $110 billion in stock buybacks and signaled that the current quarter is likely to see revenue growth. Also, while sales and profits fell in the March quarter, the numbers were slightly better than analyst expectations.Apple is struggling on a number of fronts. The company’s single most important business — the iPhone — has faced sluggish growth. In recent years, Apple has seen success by steering consumers toward its more expensive “Pro”-designated phones. Its latest iPhone 15 Pro Max was its most expensive ever with a starting price of $1,200. But this premium strategy isn’t propping up overall revenue as much as it did in the past.Apple’s biggest problem was actually COVID:as I noted last quarterit was in fall 2022 that COVID finally spread throughout China, which significantly impacted iPhone production; that meant that last quarter looked particularly good year-over-year. As for this quarter, CEO Tim Cook saidon the earnings call:Keep in mind, as we described on the last call, in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish iPhone channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the December quarter COVID-related supply disruptions on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max. We estimate this one-time impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter revenue last year. If we removed this from last year’s results, our March quarter total company revenue this year would have grown.This is a legitimate excuse! This doesn’t, to be sure, change the fundamental Apple story: most of the products it sells are replacing Apple products people already own, and that replacement cycle elongates over time; services, meanwhile, continues to grow because people are still using Apple products, even if they aren’t replacing them as frequently.Greater China, meanwhile, was down year-over-year, but, as Cook emphasized, it was downlessthan last quarter, and he reported that iPhone sales in mainland China actually grew:What we saw was an acceleration from Q1, and it was driven by iPhone. And iPhone in mainland China, before we adjust for this $5 billion impact that we talked about earlier, did grow. That means the other products didn’t fare as well, and so we clearly have work there to do. I think it has been and is, through last quarter, the most competitive market in the world. And so I wouldn’t say anything other than that. I’ve said that before, and I believe that it was last quarter as well. But if you step back from the 90-day cycle, what I see is a lot of people moving into the middle class. We try to serve customers very well there and have a lot of happy customers, and you can kind of see that in the latest store opening over there, and so I continue to feel very optimistic.That line about other products struggling is interesting: Apple’s biggest differentiator is its ecosystem broadly; if Chinese customers are not buying non-iPhone Apple products that suggests that Apple is struggling to bring its ecosystem to bear in a way that builds a long-term moat around the iPhone, somethingit has always struggled with in China. Of course this could just be a reflection of consumer weakness in China as well: phones are essential, everything else is more easily put off.Wearables and Vision ProFrom CFO Luca Maestri’s prepared remarks:Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year, due to a difficult launch compare. Last year, we had the continued benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And customer satisfaction was recently measured at 95% in the U.S.I think that the Wearables category is underrated by Apple observers, particularly those complaining that the company doesn’t innovate anymore; over the last decade the company has launched two massive new products — Apple Watch and AirPods — that are huge businesses in their own right. They also appear to be products that people don’t upgrade too often, which makes sense: part of the reality of wearables is that they more augment your iPhone than stand by themselves, which, by extension, means they just focus on doing a couple of things well. That focus, though, means there isn’t much room for major new features that drive upgrades: people use their watches until the battery wears out, and their AirPods until they lose them.There was no color, meanwhile, on Vision Pro sales, but they obviously weren’t material enough to change the trajectory of the segment as a whole; Neil Cybart estimated atAbove Avalonthat Apple sold around 55,000-60,000 Vision Pros in the quarter, which, at the base price of $3,499 is around $200 million in revenue. It speaks to Apple’s scale that that is only about 2.5% of the total revenue generated by AirPods and Watches alone — and they were down 10%!Cook and Maestri, meanwhile, once again mostly talked about the enterprise opportunity; from Cook’s prepared remarks:Of course, this past quarter we were thrilled to launch Apple Vision Pro, and it has been so wonderful to hear from people who now get to experience the magic of spatial computing. They describe the impossible becoming possible right before their eyes, and they share their amazement and their emotions about what they can do now, whether it’s reliving their most treasured memories or having a movie theater experience right in their living room.It’s also great to see the enthusiasm from the enterprise market. For example, more than half of the Fortune 100 companies have already bought Apple Vision Pro units and are exploring innovative ways to use it to do things that weren’t possible before, and this is just the beginning.Maestri added:Since the launch of Vision Pro last quarter, many leading enterprise customers have been investing in this amazing new product to bring spatial computing apps and experiences to life. We are seeing so many compelling use cases, from aircraft engine maintenance training at KLM Airlines, to real-time team collaboration for racing at Porsche, to immersive kitchen design at Lowe’s. We couldn’t be more excited about the spatial computing opportunity in Enterprise.I made the case that enterprise may be the best route to market for VRback in 2021, andreiterated the argument in the context of the Vision Proin February. To that end, I thought this question-and-answer was interesting:Tim, for enterprise specifically, what are some of the top two or three use cases on Vision Pro you’re hearing most excitement?Cook:You know, the great thing is I’m hearing about so many of them. I wouldn’t say that one has emerged as the top right now. The most impressive thing is that similar to the way people use a Mac, you use it for everything. People are using it for many different things in enterprise, and that varies from field service, to training, to health care related things like preparing a doctor for pre-op surgery or advanced imaging, control centers, and so it’s an enormous number of different verticals, and our focus is on growing that ecosystem and getting more apps and more and more enterprises engaged, and the event that we had recently, I can’t overstate the enthusiasm in the room. It was extraordinary, and so we’re off to a good start, I think, with enterprise.That’s not very convincing, to be honest, but perhaps encouraging?When I first tried the Apple VisionI made the case that it could be the future of the Mac;by the next dayI had remembered that that would never happen as long as it was locked down like iOS, and indeed, my biggest disappointmentin my reviewwere the productivity-related aspects of the device. It would certainly be something — and exciting, from my perspective — if the enterprise market ends up pulling more Mac-like functionality out of Apple simply because they are the only customers who, at this stage of VR, are willing to pay for headsets that don’t really do gaming.AI LeverageIf you wanted to be cynical, you might point out that one reason to be concerned about Apple is that the biggest talking point for its executives were features that haven’t yet launched; from Cook’s prepared remarks:We continue to feel very bullish about our opportunity in generative AI. We are making significant investments, and we’re looking forward to sharing some very exciting things with our customers soon. We believe in the transformative power and promise of AI, and we believe we have advantages that will differentiate us in this new era, including Apple’s unique combination of seamless hardware, software, and services integration, groundbreaking Apple Silicon with our industry-leading neural engines, and our unwavering focus on privacy, which underpins everything we create. As we push innovation forward, we continue to manage thoughtfully and deliberately through an uneven macroeconomic environment and remain focused on putting our users at the center of everything we do.This certainly points to Apple’s primary focus being on-device AI capabilities that leverage its own chips; again, though, it’s notable that Cook is basically pre-announcing topics from WWDC. Speaking of existing products, though, this line amused me:Turning to Mac, March quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% from a year ago. We had an amazing launch in early March with the new 13- and 15-inch MacBook Air. The world’s most popular laptop is the best consumer laptop for AI, with breakthrough performance of the M3 chip and its even more powerful neural engine.Who knew the MacBook Air was an AI computer (particularly since the base model only has 8GB of RAM)! To that end, I appreciated this question from an analyst:Tim, you’ve obviously mentioned your excitement around generative AI multiple times. I’m just curious how Apple is thinking about the different ways in which you can monetize this technology, because historically software upgrades haven’t been a big factor in driving product cycles? And so, could AI be potentially different? How could that impact replacement cycles? Is there any Services angle you’d be thinking? Any early color that you can share on that.Cook:I don’t wanna get in front of our announcements, obviously. I would just say that we see generative AI as a very key opportunity across our products and we believe that we have advantages that set us apart there, and we’ll be talking more about it as we go through the the weeks ahead.My suspicion (that I have noted a couple of times onDithering) is not only thatApple’s AI efforts will be focused on local models, but that some number (if not all) of those features will only be available on the newest devices. This is in part legitimate — newer devices have newer chips that have more and more capable neural engines and GPU cores — and also could drive new upgrade cycles; given the comments about the MacBook Air being an AI computer I wouldn’t be surprised if the cut-off is the M3 (and the A17 for iPhones).It could be something even more modern, though, at least on the iPhone side: rumor has it thatall new iPhones will have 8GB of RAM, which would be sufficient to run some permutations ofthe set of open source models the company released a couple of weeks ago(which, it must be noted, have pretty poor evaluation scores); what will be very interesting to watch is if Apple starts offering higher-end iPhones with more RAM than the base models, with the promise that they can run more capable models (and drive higher prices per device). I’m skeptical, as the company has never publicly differentiated iPhones and iPads in this way, but then again, it has never has had such a compelling reason to.One final note: Apple’s margin was down a bit (albeit still high historically), and Maestri noted:We’re guiding to, again, to a very high level of gross margins, 45.5% to 46.5%. Within that guidance, we expect memory to be a slight headwind, not a very large one, but a slight headwindSamsung Electronics reportedthat memory chip sales doubled year-over-year;SK Hynixsmashed expectaions as well, and forecasted that there may be memory shortages for things like smartphones by the end of the year. Or, to put it another way, Apple will be paying for the AI hype cycle regardless; the appropriate question is how they might monetize it, and driving product upgrades (with more memory!) is the most obvious path.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedApple’s ErrorsDateMonday, January 7, 20192025.06: From DeepSeek to Deep ResearchDateFriday, February 7, 20252025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 2025←An Interview with Databricks CEO Ali Ghodsi About Building Enterprise AITSMC Earnings, TSMC’s Pricing Mistake, Intel v. TSMC→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Apple Earnings, Wearables and Vision Pro, AI LeverageMonday, May 6, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are in full swing — I highly recommend you watch the Denver Nuggets-Minnesota Timberwolves series, if you are even a casual basketball fan — andGreatest of All Talkis covering everything as it happens, including two episodes over the weekend. Check it out using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Apple’s revenue declined for the fifth time in the past six quarters, dragged down by ailing iPhone sales and new competition from smartphone rivals in China. Still, shares of Apple rose more than 6% in premarket trading, after the company authorized $110 billion in stock buybacks and signaled that the current quarter is likely to see revenue growth. Also, while sales and profits fell in the March quarter, the numbers were slightly better than analyst expectations.Apple is struggling on a number of fronts. The company’s single most important business — the iPhone — has faced sluggish growth. In recent years, Apple has seen success by steering consumers toward its more expensive “Pro”-designated phones. Its latest iPhone 15 Pro Max was its most expensive ever with a starting price of $1,200. But this premium strategy isn’t propping up overall revenue as much as it did in the past.Apple’s biggest problem was actually COVID:as I noted last quarterit was in fall 2022 that COVID finally spread throughout China, which significantly impacted iPhone production; that meant that last quarter looked particularly good year-over-year. As for this quarter, CEO Tim Cook saidon the earnings call:Keep in mind, as we described on the last call, in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish iPhone channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the December quarter COVID-related supply disruptions on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max. We estimate this one-time impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter revenue last year. If we removed this from last year’s results, our March quarter total company revenue this year would have grown.This is a legitimate excuse! This doesn’t, to be sure, change the fundamental Apple story: most of the products it sells are replacing Apple products people already own, and that replacement cycle elongates over time; services, meanwhile, continues to grow because people are still using Apple products, even if they aren’t replacing them as frequently.Greater China, meanwhile, was down year-over-year, but, as Cook emphasized, it was downlessthan last quarter, and he reported that iPhone sales in mainland China actually grew:What we saw was an acceleration from Q1, and it was driven by iPhone. And iPhone in mainland China, before we adjust for this $5 billion impact that we talked about earlier, did grow. That means the other products didn’t fare as well, and so we clearly have work there to do. I think it has been and is, through last quarter, the most competitive market in the world. And so I wouldn’t say anything other than that. I’ve said that before, and I believe that it was last quarter as well. But if you step back from the 90-day cycle, what I see is a lot of people moving into the middle class. We try to serve customers very well there and have a lot of happy customers, and you can kind of see that in the latest store opening over there, and so I continue to feel very optimistic.That line about other products struggling is interesting: Apple’s biggest differentiator is its ecosystem broadly; if Chinese customers are not buying non-iPhone Apple products that suggests that Apple is struggling to bring its ecosystem to bear in a way that builds a long-term moat around the iPhone, somethingit has always struggled with in China. Of course this could just be a reflection of consumer weakness in China as well: phones are essential, everything else is more easily put off.Wearables and Vision ProFrom CFO Luca Maestri’s prepared remarks:Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year, due to a difficult launch compare. Last year, we had the continued benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And customer satisfaction was recently measured at 95% in the U.S.I think that the Wearables category is underrated by Apple observers, particularly those complaining that the company doesn’t innovate anymore; over the last decade the company has launched two massive new products — Apple Watch and AirPods — that are huge businesses in their own right. They also appear to be products that people don’t upgrade too often, which makes sense: part of the reality of wearables is that they more augment your iPhone than stand by themselves, which, by extension, means they just focus on doing a couple of things well. That focus, though, means there isn’t much room for major new features that drive upgrades: people use their watches until the battery wears out, and their AirPods until they lose them.There was no color, meanwhile, on Vision Pro sales, but they obviously weren’t material enough to change the trajectory of the segment as a whole; Neil Cybart estimated atAbove Avalonthat Apple sold around 55,000-60,000 Vision Pros in the quarter, which, at the base price of $3,499 is around $200 million in revenue. It speaks to Apple’s scale that that is only about 2.5% of the total revenue generated by AirPods and Watches alone — and they were down 10%!Cook and Maestri, meanwhile, once again mostly talked about the enterprise opportunity; from Cook’s prepared remarks:Of course, this past quarter we were thrilled to launch Apple Vision Pro, and it has been so wonderful to hear from people who now get to experience the magic of spatial computing. They describe the impossible becoming possible right before their eyes, and they share their amazement and their emotions about what they can do now, whether it’s reliving their most treasured memories or having a movie theater experience right in their living room.It’s also great to see the enthusiasm from the enterprise market. For example, more than half of the Fortune 100 companies have already bought Apple Vision Pro units and are exploring innovative ways to use it to do things that weren’t possible before, and this is just the beginning.Maestri added:Since the launch of Vision Pro last quarter, many leading enterprise customers have been investing in this amazing new product to bring spatial computing apps and experiences to life. We are seeing so many compelling use cases, from aircraft engine maintenance training at KLM Airlines, to real-time team collaboration for racing at Porsche, to immersive kitchen design at Lowe’s. We couldn’t be more excited about the spatial computing opportunity in Enterprise.I made the case that enterprise may be the best route to market for VRback in 2021, andreiterated the argument in the context of the Vision Proin February. To that end, I thought this question-and-answer was interesting:Tim, for enterprise specifically, what are some of the top two or three use cases on Vision Pro you’re hearing most excitement?Cook:You know, the great thing is I’m hearing about so many of them. I wouldn’t say that one has emerged as the top right now. The most impressive thing is that similar to the way people use a Mac, you use it for everything. People are using it for many different things in enterprise, and that varies from field service, to training, to health care related things like preparing a doctor for pre-op surgery or advanced imaging, control centers, and so it’s an enormous number of different verticals, and our focus is on growing that ecosystem and getting more apps and more and more enterprises engaged, and the event that we had recently, I can’t overstate the enthusiasm in the room. It was extraordinary, and so we’re off to a good start, I think, with enterprise.That’s not very convincing, to be honest, but perhaps encouraging?When I first tried the Apple VisionI made the case that it could be the future of the Mac;by the next dayI had remembered that that would never happen as long as it was locked down like iOS, and indeed, my biggest disappointmentin my reviewwere the productivity-related aspects of the device. It would certainly be something — and exciting, from my perspective — if the enterprise market ends up pulling more Mac-like functionality out of Apple simply because they are the only customers who, at this stage of VR, are willing to pay for headsets that don’t really do gaming.AI LeverageIf you wanted to be cynical, you might point out that one reason to be concerned about Apple is that the biggest talking point for its executives were features that haven’t yet launched; from Cook’s prepared remarks:We continue to feel very bullish about our opportunity in generative AI. We are making significant investments, and we’re looking forward to sharing some very exciting things with our customers soon. We believe in the transformative power and promise of AI, and we believe we have advantages that will differentiate us in this new era, including Apple’s unique combination of seamless hardware, software, and services integration, groundbreaking Apple Silicon with our industry-leading neural engines, and our unwavering focus on privacy, which underpins everything we create. As we push innovation forward, we continue to manage thoughtfully and deliberately through an uneven macroeconomic environment and remain focused on putting our users at the center of everything we do.This certainly points to Apple’s primary focus being on-device AI capabilities that leverage its own chips; again, though, it’s notable that Cook is basically pre-announcing topics from WWDC. Speaking of existing products, though, this line amused me:Turning to Mac, March quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% from a year ago. We had an amazing launch in early March with the new 13- and 15-inch MacBook Air. The world’s most popular laptop is the best consumer laptop for AI, with breakthrough performance of the M3 chip and its even more powerful neural engine.Who knew the MacBook Air was an AI computer (particularly since the base model only has 8GB of RAM)! To that end, I appreciated this question from an analyst:Tim, you’ve obviously mentioned your excitement around generative AI multiple times. I’m just curious how Apple is thinking about the different ways in which you can monetize this technology, because historically software upgrades haven’t been a big factor in driving product cycles? And so, could AI be potentially different? How could that impact replacement cycles? Is there any Services angle you’d be thinking? Any early color that you can share on that.Cook:I don’t wanna get in front of our announcements, obviously. I would just say that we see generative AI as a very key opportunity across our products and we believe that we have advantages that set us apart there, and we’ll be talking more about it as we go through the the weeks ahead.My suspicion (that I have noted a couple of times onDithering) is not only thatApple’s AI efforts will be focused on local models, but that some number (if not all) of those features will only be available on the newest devices. This is in part legitimate — newer devices have newer chips that have more and more capable neural engines and GPU cores — and also could drive new upgrade cycles; given the comments about the MacBook Air being an AI computer I wouldn’t be surprised if the cut-off is the M3 (and the A17 for iPhones).It could be something even more modern, though, at least on the iPhone side: rumor has it thatall new iPhones will have 8GB of RAM, which would be sufficient to run some permutations ofthe set of open source models the company released a couple of weeks ago(which, it must be noted, have pretty poor evaluation scores); what will be very interesting to watch is if Apple starts offering higher-end iPhones with more RAM than the base models, with the promise that they can run more capable models (and drive higher prices per device). I’m skeptical, as the company has never publicly differentiated iPhones and iPads in this way, but then again, it has never has had such a compelling reason to.One final note: Apple’s margin was down a bit (albeit still high historically), and Maestri noted:We’re guiding to, again, to a very high level of gross margins, 45.5% to 46.5%. Within that guidance, we expect memory to be a slight headwind, not a very large one, but a slight headwindSamsung Electronics reportedthat memory chip sales doubled year-over-year;SK Hynixsmashed expectaions as well, and forecasted that there may be memory shortages for things like smartphones by the end of the year. Or, to put it another way, Apple will be paying for the AI hype cycle regardless; the appropriate question is how they might monetize it, and driving product upgrades (with more memory!) is the most obvious path.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedApple’s ErrorsDateMonday, January 7, 20192025.06: From DeepSeek to Deep ResearchDateFriday, February 7, 20252025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 2025←An Interview with Databricks CEO Ali Ghodsi About Building Enterprise AITSMC Earnings, TSMC’s Pricing Mistake, Intel v. TSMC→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are in full swing — I highly recommend you watch the Denver Nuggets-Minnesota Timberwolves series, if you are even a casual basketball fan — andGreatest of All Talkis covering everything as it happens, including two episodes over the weekend. Check it out using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Apple’s revenue declined for the fifth time in the past six quarters, dragged down by ailing iPhone sales and new competition from smartphone rivals in China. Still, shares of Apple rose more than 6% in premarket trading, after the company authorized $110 billion in stock buybacks and signaled that the current quarter is likely to see revenue growth. Also, while sales and profits fell in the March quarter, the numbers were slightly better than analyst expectations.Apple is struggling on a number of fronts. The company’s single most important business — the iPhone — has faced sluggish growth. In recent years, Apple has seen success by steering consumers toward its more expensive “Pro”-designated phones. Its latest iPhone 15 Pro Max was its most expensive ever with a starting price of $1,200. But this premium strategy isn’t propping up overall revenue as much as it did in the past.Apple’s biggest problem was actually COVID:as I noted last quarterit was in fall 2022 that COVID finally spread throughout China, which significantly impacted iPhone production; that meant that last quarter looked particularly good year-over-year. As for this quarter, CEO Tim Cook saidon the earnings call:Keep in mind, as we described on the last call, in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish iPhone channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the December quarter COVID-related supply disruptions on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max. We estimate this one-time impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter revenue last year. If we removed this from last year’s results, our March quarter total company revenue this year would have grown.This is a legitimate excuse! This doesn’t, to be sure, change the fundamental Apple story: most of the products it sells are replacing Apple products people already own, and that replacement cycle elongates over time; services, meanwhile, continues to grow because people are still using Apple products, even if they aren’t replacing them as frequently.Greater China, meanwhile, was down year-over-year, but, as Cook emphasized, it was downlessthan last quarter, and he reported that iPhone sales in mainland China actually grew:What we saw was an acceleration from Q1, and it was driven by iPhone. And iPhone in mainland China, before we adjust for this $5 billion impact that we talked about earlier, did grow. That means the other products didn’t fare as well, and so we clearly have work there to do. I think it has been and is, through last quarter, the most competitive market in the world. And so I wouldn’t say anything other than that. I’ve said that before, and I believe that it was last quarter as well. But if you step back from the 90-day cycle, what I see is a lot of people moving into the middle class. We try to serve customers very well there and have a lot of happy customers, and you can kind of see that in the latest store opening over there, and so I continue to feel very optimistic.That line about other products struggling is interesting: Apple’s biggest differentiator is its ecosystem broadly; if Chinese customers are not buying non-iPhone Apple products that suggests that Apple is struggling to bring its ecosystem to bear in a way that builds a long-term moat around the iPhone, somethingit has always struggled with in China. Of course this could just be a reflection of consumer weakness in China as well: phones are essential, everything else is more easily put off.Wearables and Vision ProFrom CFO Luca Maestri’s prepared remarks:Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year, due to a difficult launch compare. Last year, we had the continued benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And customer satisfaction was recently measured at 95% in the U.S.I think that the Wearables category is underrated by Apple observers, particularly those complaining that the company doesn’t innovate anymore; over the last decade the company has launched two massive new products — Apple Watch and AirPods — that are huge businesses in their own right. They also appear to be products that people don’t upgrade too often, which makes sense: part of the reality of wearables is that they more augment your iPhone than stand by themselves, which, by extension, means they just focus on doing a couple of things well. That focus, though, means there isn’t much room for major new features that drive upgrades: people use their watches until the battery wears out, and their AirPods until they lose them.There was no color, meanwhile, on Vision Pro sales, but they obviously weren’t material enough to change the trajectory of the segment as a whole; Neil Cybart estimated atAbove Avalonthat Apple sold around 55,000-60,000 Vision Pros in the quarter, which, at the base price of $3,499 is around $200 million in revenue. It speaks to Apple’s scale that that is only about 2.5% of the total revenue generated by AirPods and Watches alone — and they were down 10%!Cook and Maestri, meanwhile, once again mostly talked about the enterprise opportunity; from Cook’s prepared remarks:Of course, this past quarter we were thrilled to launch Apple Vision Pro, and it has been so wonderful to hear from people who now get to experience the magic of spatial computing. They describe the impossible becoming possible right before their eyes, and they share their amazement and their emotions about what they can do now, whether it’s reliving their most treasured memories or having a movie theater experience right in their living room.It’s also great to see the enthusiasm from the enterprise market. For example, more than half of the Fortune 100 companies have already bought Apple Vision Pro units and are exploring innovative ways to use it to do things that weren’t possible before, and this is just the beginning.Maestri added:Since the launch of Vision Pro last quarter, many leading enterprise customers have been investing in this amazing new product to bring spatial computing apps and experiences to life. We are seeing so many compelling use cases, from aircraft engine maintenance training at KLM Airlines, to real-time team collaboration for racing at Porsche, to immersive kitchen design at Lowe’s. We couldn’t be more excited about the spatial computing opportunity in Enterprise.I made the case that enterprise may be the best route to market for VRback in 2021, andreiterated the argument in the context of the Vision Proin February. To that end, I thought this question-and-answer was interesting:Tim, for enterprise specifically, what are some of the top two or three use cases on Vision Pro you’re hearing most excitement?Cook:You know, the great thing is I’m hearing about so many of them. I wouldn’t say that one has emerged as the top right now. The most impressive thing is that similar to the way people use a Mac, you use it for everything. People are using it for many different things in enterprise, and that varies from field service, to training, to health care related things like preparing a doctor for pre-op surgery or advanced imaging, control centers, and so it’s an enormous number of different verticals, and our focus is on growing that ecosystem and getting more apps and more and more enterprises engaged, and the event that we had recently, I can’t overstate the enthusiasm in the room. It was extraordinary, and so we’re off to a good start, I think, with enterprise.That’s not very convincing, to be honest, but perhaps encouraging?When I first tried the Apple VisionI made the case that it could be the future of the Mac;by the next dayI had remembered that that would never happen as long as it was locked down like iOS, and indeed, my biggest disappointmentin my reviewwere the productivity-related aspects of the device. It would certainly be something — and exciting, from my perspective — if the enterprise market ends up pulling more Mac-like functionality out of Apple simply because they are the only customers who, at this stage of VR, are willing to pay for headsets that don’t really do gaming.AI LeverageIf you wanted to be cynical, you might point out that one reason to be concerned about Apple is that the biggest talking point for its executives were features that haven’t yet launched; from Cook’s prepared remarks:We continue to feel very bullish about our opportunity in generative AI. We are making significant investments, and we’re looking forward to sharing some very exciting things with our customers soon. We believe in the transformative power and promise of AI, and we believe we have advantages that will differentiate us in this new era, including Apple’s unique combination of seamless hardware, software, and services integration, groundbreaking Apple Silicon with our industry-leading neural engines, and our unwavering focus on privacy, which underpins everything we create. As we push innovation forward, we continue to manage thoughtfully and deliberately through an uneven macroeconomic environment and remain focused on putting our users at the center of everything we do.This certainly points to Apple’s primary focus being on-device AI capabilities that leverage its own chips; again, though, it’s notable that Cook is basically pre-announcing topics from WWDC. Speaking of existing products, though, this line amused me:Turning to Mac, March quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% from a year ago. We had an amazing launch in early March with the new 13- and 15-inch MacBook Air. The world’s most popular laptop is the best consumer laptop for AI, with breakthrough performance of the M3 chip and its even more powerful neural engine.Who knew the MacBook Air was an AI computer (particularly since the base model only has 8GB of RAM)! To that end, I appreciated this question from an analyst:Tim, you’ve obviously mentioned your excitement around generative AI multiple times. I’m just curious how Apple is thinking about the different ways in which you can monetize this technology, because historically software upgrades haven’t been a big factor in driving product cycles? And so, could AI be potentially different? How could that impact replacement cycles? Is there any Services angle you’d be thinking? Any early color that you can share on that.Cook:I don’t wanna get in front of our announcements, obviously. I would just say that we see generative AI as a very key opportunity across our products and we believe that we have advantages that set us apart there, and we’ll be talking more about it as we go through the the weeks ahead.My suspicion (that I have noted a couple of times onDithering) is not only thatApple’s AI efforts will be focused on local models, but that some number (if not all) of those features will only be available on the newest devices. This is in part legitimate — newer devices have newer chips that have more and more capable neural engines and GPU cores — and also could drive new upgrade cycles; given the comments about the MacBook Air being an AI computer I wouldn’t be surprised if the cut-off is the M3 (and the A17 for iPhones).It could be something even more modern, though, at least on the iPhone side: rumor has it thatall new iPhones will have 8GB of RAM, which would be sufficient to run some permutations ofthe set of open source models the company released a couple of weeks ago(which, it must be noted, have pretty poor evaluation scores); what will be very interesting to watch is if Apple starts offering higher-end iPhones with more RAM than the base models, with the promise that they can run more capable models (and drive higher prices per device). I’m skeptical, as the company has never publicly differentiated iPhones and iPads in this way, but then again, it has never has had such a compelling reason to.One final note: Apple’s margin was down a bit (albeit still high historically), and Maestri noted:We’re guiding to, again, to a very high level of gross margins, 45.5% to 46.5%. Within that guidance, we expect memory to be a slight headwind, not a very large one, but a slight headwindSamsung Electronics reportedthat memory chip sales doubled year-over-year;SK Hynixsmashed expectaions as well, and forecasted that there may be memory shortages for things like smartphones by the end of the year. Or, to put it another way, Apple will be paying for the AI hype cycle regardless; the appropriate question is how they might monetize it, and driving product upgrades (with more memory!) is the most obvious path.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email The NBA playoffs are in full swing — I highly recommend you watch the Denver Nuggets-Minnesota Timberwolves series, if you are even a casual basketball fan — andGreatest of All Talkis covering everything as it happens, including two episodes over the weekend. Check it out using the link at the bottom of this email. Apple’s revenue declined for the fifth time in the past six quarters, dragged down by ailing iPhone sales and new competition from smartphone rivals in China. Still, shares of Apple rose more than 6% in premarket trading, after the company authorized $110 billion in stock buybacks and signaled that the current quarter is likely to see revenue growth. Also, while sales and profits fell in the March quarter, the numbers were slightly better than analyst expectations. Apple is struggling on a number of fronts. The company’s single most important business — the iPhone — has faced sluggish growth. In recent years, Apple has seen success by steering consumers toward its more expensive “Pro”-designated phones. Its latest iPhone 15 Pro Max was its most expensive ever with a starting price of $1,200. But this premium strategy isn’t propping up overall revenue as much as it did in the past. Apple’s biggest problem was actually COVID:as I noted last quarterit was in fall 2022 that COVID finally spread throughout China, which significantly impacted iPhone production; that meant that last quarter looked particularly good year-over-year. As for this quarter, CEO Tim Cook saidon the earnings call: Keep in mind, as we described on the last call, in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish iPhone channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the December quarter COVID-related supply disruptions on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max. We estimate this one-time impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter revenue last year. If we removed this from last year’s results, our March quarter total company revenue this year would have grown. This is a legitimate excuse! This doesn’t, to be sure, change the fundamental Apple story: most of the products it sells are replacing Apple products people already own, and that replacement cycle elongates over time; services, meanwhile, continues to grow because people are still using Apple products, even if they aren’t replacing them as frequently. What we saw was an acceleration from Q1, and it was driven by iPhone. And iPhone in mainland China, before we adjust for this $5 billion impact that we talked about earlier, did grow. That means the other products didn’t fare as well, and so we clearly have work there to do. I think it has been and is, through last quarter, the most competitive market in the world. And so I wouldn’t say anything other than that. I’ve said that before, and I believe that it was last quarter as well. But if you step back from the 90-day cycle, what I see is a lot of people moving into the middle class. We try to serve customers very well there and have a lot of happy customers, and you can kind of see that in the latest store opening over there, and so I continue to feel very optimistic. That line about other products struggling is interesting: Apple’s biggest differentiator is its ecosystem broadly; if Chinese customers are not buying non-iPhone Apple products that suggests that Apple is struggling to bring its ecosystem to bear in a way that builds a long-term moat around the iPhone, somethingit has always struggled with in China. Of course this could just be a reflection of consumer weakness in China as well: phones are essential, everything else is more easily put off. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year, due to a difficult launch compare. Last year, we had the continued benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And customer satisfaction was recently measured at 95% in the U.S. I think that the Wearables category is underrated by Apple observers, particularly those complaining that the company doesn’t innovate anymore; over the last decade the company has launched two massive new products — Apple Watch and AirPods — that are huge businesses in their own right. They also appear to be products that people don’t upgrade too often, which makes sense: part of the reality of wearables is that they more augment your iPhone than stand by themselves, which, by extension, means they just focus on doing a couple of things well. That focus, though, means there isn’t much room for major new features that drive upgrades: people use their watches until the battery wears out, and their AirPods until they lose them. There was no color, meanwhile, on Vision Pro sales, but they obviously weren’t material enough to change the trajectory of the segment as a whole; Neil Cybart estimated atAbove Avalonthat Apple sold around 55,000-60,000 Vision Pros in the quarter, which, at the base price of $3,499 is around $200 million in revenue. It speaks to Apple’s scale that that is only about 2.5% of the total revenue generated by AirPods and Watches alone — and they were down 10%! Of course, this past quarter we were thrilled to launch Apple Vision Pro, and it has been so wonderful to hear from people who now get to experience the magic of spatial computing. They describe the impossible becoming possible right before their eyes, and they share their amazement and their emotions about what they can do now, whether it’s reliving their most treasured memories or having a movie theater experience right in their living room. It’s also great to see the enthusiasm from the enterprise market. For example, more than half of the Fortune 100 companies have already bought Apple Vision Pro units and are exploring innovative ways to use it to do things that weren’t possible before, and this is just the beginning. Since the launch of Vision Pro last quarter, many leading enterprise customers have been investing in this amazing new product to bring spatial computing apps and experiences to life. We are seeing so many compelling use cases, from aircraft engine maintenance training at KLM Airlines, to real-time team collaboration for racing at Porsche, to immersive kitchen design at Lowe’s. We couldn’t be more excited about the spatial computing opportunity in Enterprise. I made the case that enterprise may be the best route to market for VRback in 2021, andreiterated the argument in the context of the Vision Proin February. To that end, I thought this question-and-answer was interesting: Cook:You know, the great thing is I’m hearing about so many of them. I wouldn’t say that one has emerged as the top right now. The most impressive thing is that similar to the way people use a Mac, you use it for everything. People are using it for many different things in enterprise, and that varies from field service, to training, to health care related things like preparing a doctor for pre-op surgery or advanced imaging, control centers, and so it’s an enormous number of different verticals, and our focus is on growing that ecosystem and getting more apps and more and more enterprises engaged, and the event that we had recently, I can’t overstate the enthusiasm in the room. It was extraordinary, and so we’re off to a good start, I think, with enterprise. That’s not very convincing, to be honest, but perhaps encouraging?When I first tried the Apple VisionI made the case that it could be the future of the Mac;by the next dayI had remembered that that would never happen as long as it was locked down like iOS, and indeed, my biggest disappointmentin my reviewwere the productivity-related aspects of the device. It would certainly be something — and exciting, from my perspective — if the enterprise market ends up pulling more Mac-like functionality out of Apple simply because they are the only customers who, at this stage of VR, are willing to pay for headsets that don’t really do gaming. If you wanted to be cynical, you might point out that one reason to be concerned about Apple is that the biggest talking point for its executives were features that haven’t yet launched; from Cook’s prepared remarks: We continue to feel very bullish about our opportunity in generative AI. We are making significant investments, and we’re looking forward to sharing some very exciting things with our customers soon. We believe in the transformative power and promise of AI, and we believe we have advantages that will differentiate us in this new era, including Apple’s unique combination of seamless hardware, software, and services integration, groundbreaking Apple Silicon with our industry-leading neural engines, and our unwavering focus on privacy, which underpins everything we create. As we push innovation forward, we continue to manage thoughtfully and deliberately through an uneven macroeconomic environment and remain focused on putting our users at the center of everything we do. This certainly points to Apple’s primary focus being on-device AI capabilities that leverage its own chips; again, though, it’s notable that Cook is basically pre-announcing topics from WWDC. Speaking of existing products, though, this line amused me: Turning to Mac, March quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% from a year ago. We had an amazing launch in early March with the new 13- and 15-inch MacBook Air. The world’s most popular laptop is the best consumer laptop for AI, with breakthrough performance of the M3 chip and its even more powerful neural engine. Tim, you’ve obviously mentioned your excitement around generative AI multiple times. I’m just curious how Apple is thinking about the different ways in which you can monetize this technology, because historically software upgrades haven’t been a big factor in driving product cycles? And so, could AI be potentially different? How could that impact replacement cycles? Is there any Services angle you’d be thinking? Any early color that you can share on that. Cook:I don’t wanna get in front of our announcements, obviously. I would just say that we see generative AI as a very key opportunity across our products and we believe that we have advantages that set us apart there, and we’ll be talking more about it as we go through the the weeks ahead. My suspicion (that I have noted a couple of times onDithering) is not only thatApple’s AI efforts will be focused on local models, but that some number (if not all) of those features will only be available on the newest devices. This is in part legitimate — newer devices have newer chips that have more and more capable neural engines and GPU cores — and also could drive new upgrade cycles; given the comments about the MacBook Air being an AI computer I wouldn’t be surprised if the cut-off is the M3 (and the A17 for iPhones). It could be something even more modern, though, at least on the iPhone side: rumor has it thatall new iPhones will have 8GB of RAM, which would be sufficient to run some permutations ofthe set of open source models the company released a couple of weeks ago(which, it must be noted, have pretty poor evaluation scores); what will be very interesting to watch is if Apple starts offering higher-end iPhones with more RAM than the base models, with the promise that they can run more capable models (and drive higher prices per device). I’m skeptical, as the company has never publicly differentiated iPhones and iPads in this way, but then again, it has never has had such a compelling reason to. Samsung Electronics reportedthat memory chip sales doubled year-over-year;SK Hynixsmashed expectaions as well, and forecasted that there may be memory shortages for things like smartphones by the end of the year. Or, to put it another way, Apple will be paying for the AI hype cycle regardless; the appropriate question is how they might monetize it, and driving product upgrades (with more memory!) is the most obvious path. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025