# [PODCAST] OIRA: The tiny office that's about to remake the federal government

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/04/16/1245044458/-office-of-information-and-regulatory-affairs-executive-orders
**Atlas ID**: 229449
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.838384

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop What is OIRA, and why is it about to become more powerful? : Planet MoneyOIRA — the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs — is an obscure, but powerful federal office around the corner from the White House. President Trump has decided that it should get even more powerful.For the last 45 years, OIRA has overseen most federal agencies by reviewing proposed regulations to make sure they agree with the President's policies and don't conflict with the work of other agencies. But one set of federal agencies has always been exempt from this review process — independent federal agencies like the SEC, FTC, FCC, and Federal Reserve. Until now.According to a newexecutive order, those independent agencies are about to get a lot less independent. We take a look at what this change could mean for financial markets...and the future of American democracy.This episode was produced by James Sneed and Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Music Production - "Tanga," "The Jump Back," and "Kumbatia." Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkOIRA: The tiny office that's about to remake the federal governmentApril 16, 20253:00 AM ETByKeith Romer,Erika Beras,Jess Jiang,James Sneed,Willa RubinOIRA: The tiny office that's about to remake the federal governmentListen·26:5726:57TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1245044458/1269157484" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageCareer staff of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs work in the New Executive Office Building.Keith Romer/NPRhide captiontoggle captionKeith Romer/NPRCareer staff of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs work in the New Executive Office Building.Keith Romer/NPROIRA — the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs — is an obscure, but powerful federal office around the corner from the White House. President Trump has decided that it should get even more powerful.For the last 45 years, OIRA has overseen most federal agencies by reviewing proposed regulations to make sure they agree with the President's policies and don't conflict with the work of other agencies. But one set of federal agencies has always been exempt from this review process — independent federal agencies like the SEC, FTC, FCC, and Federal Reserve. Until now.According to a newexecutive order, those independent agencies are about to get a lot less independent. We take a look at what this change could mean for financial markets...and the future of American democracy.Sponsor MessageThis episode was produced by James Sneed and Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Music Production - "Tanga," "The Jump Back," and "Kumbatia."Clarification noteApril 17, 2025A previous version of this episode incorrectly said that an appeals court had ruled that the firing of a Democrat appointee to the National Labor Relations Board was illegal. A lower court had previously ruled that the firing was illegal. The appeals court rejected a Trump administration request for a stay on that ruling, but did not rule on the legality of the firing.RegulationOIRAgovernment regulationFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor OIRA: The tiny office that's about to remake the federal governmentListen·26:5726:57TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1245044458/1269157484" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript OIRA: The tiny office that's about to remake the federal governmentListen·26:5726:57TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1245044458/1269157484" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1245044458/1269157484" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageCareer staff of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs work in the New Executive Office Building.Keith Romer/NPRhide captiontoggle captionKeith Romer/NPRCareer staff of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs work in the New Executive Office Building.Keith Romer/NPROIRA — the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs — is an obscure, but powerful federal office around the corner from the White House. President Trump has decided that it should get even more powerful.For the last 45 years, OIRA has overseen most federal agencies by reviewing proposed regulations to make sure they agree with the President's policies and don't conflict with the work of other agencies. But one set of federal agencies has always been exempt from this review process — independent federal agencies like the SEC, FTC, FCC, and Federal Reserve. Until now.According to a newexecutive order, those independent agencies are about to get a lot less independent. We take a look at what this change could mean for financial markets...and the future of American democracy.Sponsor MessageThis episode was produced by James Sneed and Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Music Production - "Tanga," "The Jump Back," and "Kumbatia." Enlarge this imageCareer staff of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs work in the New Executive Office Building.Keith Romer/NPRhide captiontoggle captionKeith Romer/NPRCareer staff of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs work in the New Executive Office Building.Keith Romer/NPR OIRA — the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs — is an obscure, but powerful federal office around the corner from the White House. President Trump has decided that it should get even more powerful. For the last 45 years, OIRA has overseen most federal agencies by reviewing proposed regulations to make sure they agree with the President's policies and don't conflict with the work of other agencies. But one set of federal agencies has always been exempt from this review process — independent federal agencies like the SEC, FTC, FCC, and Federal Reserve. Until now. According to a newexecutive order, those independent agencies are about to get a lot less independent. We take a look at what this change could mean for financial markets...and the future of American democracy. Clarification noteApril 17, 2025A previous version of this episode incorrectly said that an appeals court had ruled that the firing of a Democrat appointee to the National Labor Relations Board was illegal. A lower court had previously ruled that the firing was illegal. The appeals court rejected a Trump administration request for a stay on that ruling, but did not rule on the legality of the firing. A previous version of this episode incorrectly said that an appeals court had ruled that the firing of a Democrat appointee to the National Labor Relations Board was illegal. A lower court had previously ruled that the firing was illegal. The appeals court rejected a Trump administration request for a stay on that ruling, but did not rule on the legality of the firing. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra