# [PODCAST] The life and possible death of low interest rates

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/04/14/1170103587/interest-rates-mortgage-summers-blanchard
**Atlas ID**: 229505
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.848606

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Are we destined for high interest rates forever? : Planet MoneyRight now, the economy is running hot. Inflation is high, and central banks are pushing up interest rates to fight it. But before the pandemic, economies around the world were stuck in a different rut: low inflation, low interest rates, low growth.In 2013,Larry Summersunearthed an old term from the Great Depression to explain why the economy was in this rut: secular stagnation. The theory resonated withOlivier Blanchard, another leading scholar, because he had made similar observations himself. Larry and Olivier would go on to build a case for why secular stagnation was a defining theory of the economy and why government policies needed to respond to it. They helped reshape many people's understanding of the economy, and suggested that this period of slow growth and low interest rates was here to stay for a long time.But today, Larry and Olivier are no longer the duo they used to be. As inflation has spiked worldwide, interest rates have followed suit. Earlier this year, Larry announced that he was no longer on the secular stagnation train. Olivier, meanwhile, believes we're just going through a minor blip and will return to a period of low interest rates within the near future. He doesn't see the deep forces that led to a long-run decline in interest rates as just vanishing. Who's right? The future of the global economy could depend on the answer.Help support Planet Money  by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe life and possible death of low interest ratesApril 14, 202310:06 PM ETByGreg Rosalsky,Sarah Gonzalez,Willa Rubin,Jess JiangThe life and possible death of low interest ratesListen·25:5625:56TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1170103587/1198959521" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imagePeterson Institute for International EconomicsPeterson Institute for International EconomicsRight now, the economy is running hot. Inflation is high, and central banks are pushing up interest rates to fight it. But before the pandemic, economies around the world were stuck in a different rut: low inflation, low interest rates, low growth.In 2013,Larry Summersunearthed an old term from the Great Depression to explain why the economy was in this rut: secular stagnation. The theory resonated withOlivier Blanchard, another leading scholar, because he had made similar observations himself. Larry and Olivier would go on to build a case for why secular stagnation was a defining theory of the economy and why government policies needed to respond to it. They helped reshape many people's understanding of the economy, and suggested that this period of slow growth and low interest rates was here to stay for a long time.Sponsor MessageBut today, Larry and Olivier are no longer the duo they used to be. As inflation has spiked worldwide, interest rates have followed suit. Earlier this year, Larry announced that he was no longer on the secular stagnation train. Olivier, meanwhile, believes we're just going through a minor blip and will return to a period of low interest rates within the near future. He doesn't see the deep forces that led to a long-run decline in interest rates as just vanishing. Who's right? The future of the global economy could depend on the answer.This show was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee, engineered by Maggie Luthar, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and edited by Jess Jiang.Music: "West Green Road 2," "Meet Me In The Lobby" and "The Sky Was Orange."Help support Planet Money by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokour weeklyNewsletter.macroeconomicshome buyersolivier blanchardsecular stagnationinflationFederal Reserveinterest ratesIMFLarry SummersmortgageGreat RecessionFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The life and possible death of low interest ratesListen·25:5625:56TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1170103587/1198959521" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The life and possible death of low interest ratesListen·25:5625:56TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1170103587/1198959521" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1170103587/1198959521" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imagePeterson Institute for International EconomicsPeterson Institute for International EconomicsRight now, the economy is running hot. Inflation is high, and central banks are pushing up interest rates to fight it. But before the pandemic, economies around the world were stuck in a different rut: low inflation, low interest rates, low growth.In 2013,Larry Summersunearthed an old term from the Great Depression to explain why the economy was in this rut: secular stagnation. The theory resonated withOlivier Blanchard, another leading scholar, because he had made similar observations himself. Larry and Olivier would go on to build a case for why secular stagnation was a defining theory of the economy and why government policies needed to respond to it. They helped reshape many people's understanding of the economy, and suggested that this period of slow growth and low interest rates was here to stay for a long time.Sponsor MessageBut today, Larry and Olivier are no longer the duo they used to be. As inflation has spiked worldwide, interest rates have followed suit. Earlier this year, Larry announced that he was no longer on the secular stagnation train. Olivier, meanwhile, believes we're just going through a minor blip and will return to a period of low interest rates within the near future. He doesn't see the deep forces that led to a long-run decline in interest rates as just vanishing. Who's right? The future of the global economy could depend on the answer.This show was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee, engineered by Maggie Luthar, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and edited by Jess Jiang.Music: "West Green Road 2," "Meet Me In The Lobby" and "The Sky Was Orange."Help support Planet Money by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokour weeklyNewsletter. Right now, the economy is running hot. Inflation is high, and central banks are pushing up interest rates to fight it. But before the pandemic, economies around the world were stuck in a different rut: low inflation, low interest rates, low growth. In 2013,Larry Summersunearthed an old term from the Great Depression to explain why the economy was in this rut: secular stagnation. The theory resonated withOlivier Blanchard, another leading scholar, because he had made similar observations himself. Larry and Olivier would go on to build a case for why secular stagnation was a defining theory of the economy and why government policies needed to respond to it. They helped reshape many people's understanding of the economy, and suggested that this period of slow growth and low interest rates was here to stay for a long time. But today, Larry and Olivier are no longer the duo they used to be. As inflation has spiked worldwide, interest rates have followed suit. Earlier this year, Larry announced that he was no longer on the secular stagnation train. Olivier, meanwhile, believes we're just going through a minor blip and will return to a period of low interest rates within the near future. He doesn't see the deep forces that led to a long-run decline in interest rates as just vanishing. Who's right? The future of the global economy could depend on the answer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra