# [PODCAST] The prince of prints and his prints of Prince

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/09/05/1197609729/prince-warhol-goldsmith-supreme-court
**Atlas ID**: 229489
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.845898

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop The Andy Warhol Supreme Court case and what it means for the future of art : Planet MoneyIn 1981, photographer Lynn Goldsmith took a portrait of the musician Prince. It's a pretty standard headshot — it's in black-and-white, and Prince is staring down the camera lens.This was early in his career, when he was still building the pop icon reputation he would have today. And in 1984, shortly after Prince had releasedPurple Rain, he was chosen to grace the cover of Vanity Fair. The magazine commissioned pop culture icon Andy Warhol to make a portrait of Prince for the cover. He used Lynn Goldsmith's photo, created a silkscreen from it, added some artistic touches, and instead of black-and-white, colored the face purple and set it against a red background. Warhol was paid, Goldsmith was paid, and both were given credit.However, years later, after both Prince and Warhol had passed away, Goldsmith saw her portrait back out in the world again. But this time, the face was orange, and Goldsmith wasn't given money or credit. And what began as a typical question of payment for work, led to a firestorm in the Supreme Court. At the center of it, dozens of questions of what makes art unique. And at what point does a derivative work become transformative? The answer, it seems, has to do less with what art critics think, and more with what the market thinks.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe Andy Warhol Supreme Court case and what it means for the future of artSeptember 6, 20235:48 PM ETByJeff Guo,Julia Longoria,Jess Jiang,Emma Peaslee,Jenny LawtonThe Andy Warhol Supreme Court case and what it means for the future of artListen·28:4628:46TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197609729/1198961448" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageA portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide captiontoggle captionCollection of the Supreme Court of the United StatesA portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United StatesIn 1981, photographer Lynn Goldsmith took a portrait of the musician Prince. It's a pretty standard headshot — it's in black-and-white, and Prince is staring down the camera lens.This was early in his career, when he was still building the pop icon reputation he would have today. And in 1984, shortly after Prince had releasedPurple Rain, he was chosen to grace the cover of Vanity Fair. The magazine commissioned pop culture icon Andy Warhol to make a portrait of Prince for the cover. He used Lynn Goldsmith's photo, created a silkscreen from it, added some artistic touches, and instead of black-and-white, colored the face purple and set it against a red background. Warhol was paid, Goldsmith was paid, and both were given credit.Sponsor MessageHowever, years later, after both Prince and Warhol had passed away, Goldsmith saw her portrait back out in the world again. But this time, the face was orange, and Goldsmith wasn't given money or credit. And what began as a typical question of payment for work, led to a firestorm in the Supreme Court. At the center of it, dozens of questions of what makes art unique. And at what point does a derivative work become transformative? The answer, it seems, has to do less with what art critics think, and more with what the market thinks.This episode was originally produced by 'More Perfect' from WNYC Studios. The original 'More Perfect' episode,Andy Warhol and the Art of Judging Art, was produced by Whitney Jones and Alyssa Edes, with help from Gabrielle Berbey. It was edited by Julia Longoria, and Jenny Lawton. It was fact-checked by Naomi Sharp. Sound design was by David Herman and it was mixed by Joe Plourde.It's Been a Minute with Sam SandersThe Iconic Moments of PrinceThis 'Planet Money' episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Julia Longoria, produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: More Perfect and NPR Source Audio - "Lost in Yesterday"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The Andy Warhol Supreme Court case and what it means for the future of artListen·28:4628:46TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197609729/1198961448" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The Andy Warhol Supreme Court case and what it means for the future of artListen·28:4628:46TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197609729/1198961448" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197609729/1198961448" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageA portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide captiontoggle captionCollection of the Supreme Court of the United StatesA portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United StatesIn 1981, photographer Lynn Goldsmith took a portrait of the musician Prince. It's a pretty standard headshot — it's in black-and-white, and Prince is staring down the camera lens.This was early in his career, when he was still building the pop icon reputation he would have today. And in 1984, shortly after Prince had releasedPurple Rain, he was chosen to grace the cover of Vanity Fair. The magazine commissioned pop culture icon Andy Warhol to make a portrait of Prince for the cover. He used Lynn Goldsmith's photo, created a silkscreen from it, added some artistic touches, and instead of black-and-white, colored the face purple and set it against a red background. Warhol was paid, Goldsmith was paid, and both were given credit.Sponsor MessageHowever, years later, after both Prince and Warhol had passed away, Goldsmith saw her portrait back out in the world again. But this time, the face was orange, and Goldsmith wasn't given money or credit. And what began as a typical question of payment for work, led to a firestorm in the Supreme Court. At the center of it, dozens of questions of what makes art unique. And at what point does a derivative work become transformative? The answer, it seems, has to do less with what art critics think, and more with what the market thinks.This episode was originally produced by 'More Perfect' from WNYC Studios. The original 'More Perfect' episode,Andy Warhol and the Art of Judging Art, was produced by Whitney Jones and Alyssa Edes, with help from Gabrielle Berbey. It was edited by Julia Longoria, and Jenny Lawton. It was fact-checked by Naomi Sharp. Sound design was by David Herman and it was mixed by Joe Plourde.It's Been a Minute with Sam SandersThe Iconic Moments of PrinceThis 'Planet Money' episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Julia Longoria, produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: More Perfect and NPR Source Audio - "Lost in Yesterday" Enlarge this imageA portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide captiontoggle captionCollection of the Supreme Court of the United StatesA portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States A portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide captiontoggle captionCollection of the Supreme Court of the United States A portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide captiontoggle caption A portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide caption A portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United Stateshide caption A portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States A portrait of Prince taken by Lynn Goldsmith (left) in 1981 and 16 silk-screened images Andy Warhol later created using the photo as a reference (right).Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States This was early in his career, when he was still building the pop icon reputation he would have today. And in 1984, shortly after Prince had releasedPurple Rain, he was chosen to grace the cover of Vanity Fair. The magazine commissioned pop culture icon Andy Warhol to make a portrait of Prince for the cover. He used Lynn Goldsmith's photo, created a silkscreen from it, added some artistic touches, and instead of black-and-white, colored the face purple and set it against a red background. Warhol was paid, Goldsmith was paid, and both were given credit. However, years later, after both Prince and Warhol had passed away, Goldsmith saw her portrait back out in the world again. But this time, the face was orange, and Goldsmith wasn't given money or credit. And what began as a typical question of payment for work, led to a firestorm in the Supreme Court. At the center of it, dozens of questions of what makes art unique. And at what point does a derivative work become transformative? The answer, it seems, has to do less with what art critics think, and more with what the market thinks. This episode was originally produced by 'More Perfect' from WNYC Studios. The original 'More Perfect' episode,Andy Warhol and the Art of Judging Art, was produced by Whitney Jones and Alyssa Edes, with help from Gabrielle Berbey. It was edited by Julia Longoria, and Jenny Lawton. It was fact-checked by Naomi Sharp. Sound design was by David Herman and it was mixed by Joe Plourde. This 'Planet Money' episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Julia Longoria, produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra