# [PODCAST] Supply, demand, extinction

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/06/30/1185313253/poison-dart-frog-black-market-smuggling
**Atlas ID**: 229497
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.847231

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How lab breeding could put an end to frog smuggling : Planet MoneyBack in the 90s, Ivan Lozano Ortega was in charge of Bogota's wildlife rescue center. And he kept getting calls from the airport to come deal with... frogs. Hundreds of brightly colored, poisonous frogs.Ivan had stumbled upon the poisonous frog black market. Tens of thousands of frogs were being poached out of the Colombian rainforest and sold to collectors all around the world by smugglers. And it put these endangered frogs at risk of going extinct.Today on the show, how Ivan tried to put an end to the poison frog black market, by breeding and selling frogs legally. And he learns that it's not so easy to get a frog out of hot water.This episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Sarah Gonzalez, and co-reported and written with Charlotte de Beauvoir. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe black market endangered this frog. Can the free market save it?June 30, 20236:03 PM ETByStan Alcorn,Sarah Gonzalez,Charlotte de Beauvoir,Willa Rubin,Jess JiangThe black market endangered this frog. Can the free market save it?Listen·28:5728:57TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1185313253/1198959380" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageAnOophaga lehmannifrog sits on a branch in its natural habitat, in the Anchicayá Valley, Colombia.Charlotte de Beauvoir/NPRhide captiontoggle captionCharlotte de Beauvoir/NPRAnOophaga lehmannifrog sits on a branch in its natural habitat, in the Anchicayá Valley, Colombia.Charlotte de Beauvoir/NPRIvan Lozano Ortega was in charge of Bogota's wildlife rescue center back in the 90s, when he started getting calls from the airport to deal with... frogs. Hundreds of brightly colored frogs.Most of these frogs were a type calledOophaga lehmanni. Bright red and black, and poisonous. Ivan and his colleagues weren't prepared for that. They flooded one of their offices to make it humid enough for the frogs. They made makeshift butterfly nets to catch bugs to feed them."It was a 24 hour [a day] job at that time," he says. "And the clock was ticking."Sponsor MessagePlanet MoneySnakebiteThe frogs were dying, andOophaga lehmanniwas already a critically endangered species. But the calls kept coming, more and more frogs discovered at the airport, left by smugglers."Somebody is depleting the Colombian forests of these frogs," he says. "This is a nightmare. This is something that is going to make this species become extinct. Something has to be done."Ivan had stumbled upon the frog black market. Rare frogs likeOophaga lehmannican sell for hundreds of dollars. They are taken right out of the Colombian rainforest by poachers and smuggled overseas, where they're sold to collectors, also known as "froggers." Froggers keep these rare frogs as pets.Ivan Lozano Ortega stands outside the laboratories at his frog breeding facility, Tesoros de Colombia.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle captionStan Alcorn/NPRAccording to the biologists who study theOophaga lehmanni,smugglers have taken an estimated80,000 frogsout of the Anchicayá Valley in Colombia, the only spot on the planet where you can find them. Today, there are probably less than 5,000 of them left.Ivan says that part of what has made this frog so special for collectors is that they're rare."If you have any kind of good that is rare and difficult to find, difficult to purchase, you will meet, probably, a very high price for that, like a diamond," he says.Sponsor MessageThese rare frogs are what is known as a "Veblen good" — a good that, as it gets more expensive, demand paradoxically increases, rather than decreases. Ivan decided he couldn't end the demand for these rare frogs, but he could do something about the supply.Today on the show, how Ivan tries to put an end to the smuggling of theOophaga lehmanniby breeding and selling them legally. And he learns that using textbook economics plays out differently in the real world.1of0iView slideshowThis episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Sarah Gonzalez, and co-reported and written with Charlotte de Beauvoir. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "I Don't Do Gossip" and "Doctor Dizzy"; Blue Dot Sessions - "Copley Beat"Planet MoneyfrogsFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The black market endangered this frog. Can the free market save it?Listen·28:5728:57TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1185313253/1198959380" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The black market endangered this frog. Can the free market save it?Listen·28:5728:57TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1185313253/1198959380" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1185313253/1198959380" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageAnOophaga lehmannifrog sits on a branch in its natural habitat, in the Anchicayá Valley, Colombia.Charlotte de Beauvoir/NPRhide captiontoggle captionCharlotte de Beauvoir/NPRAnOophaga lehmannifrog sits on a branch in its natural habitat, in the Anchicayá Valley, Colombia.Charlotte de Beauvoir/NPRIvan Lozano Ortega was in charge of Bogota's wildlife rescue center back in the 90s, when he started getting calls from the airport to deal with... frogs. Hundreds of brightly colored frogs.Most of these frogs were a type calledOophaga lehmanni. Bright red and black, and poisonous. Ivan and his colleagues weren't prepared for that. They flooded one of their offices to make it humid enough for the frogs. They made makeshift butterfly nets to catch bugs to feed them."It was a 24 hour [a day] job at that time," he says. "And the clock was ticking."Sponsor MessagePlanet MoneySnakebiteThe frogs were dying, andOophaga lehmanniwas already a critically endangered species. But the calls kept coming, more and more frogs discovered at the airport, left by smugglers."Somebody is depleting the Colombian forests of these frogs," he says. "This is a nightmare. This is something that is going to make this species become extinct. Something has to be done."Ivan had stumbled upon the frog black market. Rare frogs likeOophaga lehmannican sell for hundreds of dollars. They are taken right out of the Colombian rainforest by poachers and smuggled overseas, where they're sold to collectors, also known as "froggers." Froggers keep these rare frogs as pets.Ivan Lozano Ortega stands outside the laboratories at his frog breeding facility, Tesoros de Colombia.Stan Alcorn/NPRhide captiontoggle captionStan Alcorn/NPRAccording to the biologists who study theOophaga lehmanni,smugglers have taken an estimated80,000 frogsout of the Anchicayá Valley in Colombia, the only spot on the planet where you can find them. Today, there are probably less than 5,000 of them left.Ivan says that part of what has made this frog so special for collectors is that they're rare."If you have any kind of good that is rare and difficult to find, difficult to purchase, you will meet, probably, a very high price for that, like a diamond," he says.Sponsor MessageThese rare frogs are what is known as a "Veblen good" — a good that, as it gets more expensive, demand paradoxically increases, rather than decreases. Ivan decided he couldn't end the demand for these rare frogs, but he could do something about the supply.Today on the show, how Ivan tries to put an end to the smuggling of theOophaga lehmanniby breeding and selling them legally. And he learns that using textbook economics plays out differently in the real world.1of0iView slideshowThis episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Sarah Gonzalez, and co-reported and written with Charlotte de Beauvoir. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "I Don't Do Gossip" and "Doctor Dizzy"; Blue Dot Sessions - "Copley Beat" Enlarge this imageAnOophaga lehmannifrog sits on a branch in its natural habitat, in the Anchicayá Valley, Colombia.Charlotte de Beauvoir/NPRhide captiontoggle captionCharlotte de Beauvoir/NPRAnOophaga lehmannifrog sits on a branch in its natural habitat, in the Anchicayá Valley, Colombia.Charlotte de Beauvoir/NPR Most of these frogs were a type calledOophaga lehmanni. Bright red and black, and poisonous. Ivan and his colleagues weren't prepared for that. They flooded one of their offices to make it humid enough for the frogs. They made makeshift butterfly nets to catch bugs to feed them. Ivan had stumbled upon the frog black market. Rare frogs likeOophaga lehmannican sell for hundreds of dollars. They are taken right out of the Colombian rainforest by poachers and smuggled overseas, where they're sold to collectors, also known as "froggers." Froggers keep these rare frogs as pets. According to the biologists who study theOophaga lehmanni,smugglers have taken an estimated80,000 frogsout of the Anchicayá Valley in Colombia, the only spot on the planet where you can find them. Today, there are probably less than 5,000 of them left. These rare frogs are what is known as a "Veblen good" — a good that, as it gets more expensive, demand paradoxically increases, rather than decreases. Ivan decided he couldn't end the demand for these rare frogs, but he could do something about the supply. Today on the show, how Ivan tries to put an end to the smuggling of theOophaga lehmanniby breeding and selling them legally. And he learns that using textbook economics plays out differently in the real world. This episode was hosted by Stan Alcorn and Sarah Gonzalez, and co-reported and written with Charlotte de Beauvoir. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra