# [PODCAST] Copilot Pages, Salesforce Agents

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/copilot-pages-salesforce-agents/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2NvcGlsb3QtcGFnZXMtc2FsZXNmb3JjZS1hZ2VudHMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3NjExNjkxMTcsImlhdCI6MTc1ODU3NzExNywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcHAucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMgcG9kY2FzdCByc3MiLCJzdWIiOiJjMGVkZDRjMi1lMjczLTQ3YjEtYWNiZS01MGFlOWYxMzg1MTgiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.VNdpxYP1xhVjtg6rBU0rBnigDARerR0CEVRpmJ7UER40hcUa387ZKFbhTWa8MnqEFnvd6OiaSqpRFfVI1jCG0w7zFsKXfHW2lSaxTo1RTuiUvGbC4pPZ_zUU_PC-9wrKp9AAUYQM4ANxy5C9sYh2FPrwzABny5KzUVe3JsryFIRpuQa-_-yNt6h4QbWc9EQxPv7AfTNwaN67rSHAJD3niDawED8mkTPiRzbFB9HeOXrh20OpEKv_fa5xgEe3tzKu4u6CXnSmIl5u96IUEr3tVKgKM2yI8DpgBNRVO73q0vLkdCQ8A_XrLCtXZ6Y2UXgrrk6uQU7aGvp-JPBAKDF49A
**Atlas ID**: 229696
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.945513

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirCopilot Pages, Salesforce AgentsWednesday, September 18, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On this week’sMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed politics as monoculture and startups in China and the E.U.On to the Update:Copilot PagesFromThe Verge:Microsoft is announcing its new Copilot Pages feature today, which is designed to be a canvas for “multiplayer AI collaboration.” Copilot Pages lets you use Microsoft’s Copilot chatbot and pull responses into a new page where they can be edited collaboratively with others…Pages starts rolling out to Microsoft 365 Copilot customers today and will be generally available to all subscribers later this month. It builds on top of Microsoft’s collaborative work with Loop, a Notion competitor that includes futuristic Lego-like Office documents.You can share Copilot Pages with just a link, and colleagues can immediately start editing them just like they would a shared Word document. You can also embed Copilot Pages into other pages as components. As it’s tied to Microsoft’s new BizChat, a work hub for Copilot, you can also pull data from the web or from work files to create a project plan, meeting notes, a business pitch, and much more. Microsoft sees Copilot Pages as a new pattern of work that includes humans and AI input in a single canvas.Microsoft Loop is built on the company’s Fluid Framework; I wrote about Fluidback in 2020and how it reminded me of OpenDoc, a technology Apple sought to popularize in the 1990s:OpenDoc was created by Apple in 1992 with the idea of shifting productivity from an application-centric model to a document-centric one; there would be different reusable components, like a text editor, a chart maker, an image editor, etc., that could be dynamically combined to create a document. Moreover, each of those components would be defined by the OpenDoc standard, such that different vendors could create and open components built by other vendors on unique operating systems.The alternative was the increasing Microsoft hegemony in Office applications; in that model documents were subservient to the applications that created them, but the implication was that Microsoft dominated the market. The problem for Apple and its partners, though, was not only that Microsoft had significantly more market share, particularly in enterprises that actually needed word processors, spreadsheets, and presentation software, but that the application model was simply a much better approach for the personal computer era. Given the lack of computing power and lack of connectivity, it made much more sense to have compatible documents made by common applications than to try and create common documents with compatible components — at least with the level of complexity implicit in OpenDoc.Fluid struck me as a callback to the OpenDoc idea, but a much more viable one, given the increased ubiquity of networking, which made it possible to keep various components in sync. What was notable is that it was Microsoft now pushing that vision, in service of its larger project to own enterprise data, particularly since the rise of mobile meant it no longer could count on controlling the underlying operating system. Continuing from that Update:The way to think about Teams is that from Microsoft’s perspective it is the operating system, and the company couldn’t have been more explicit about that fact at Build. This graphic came up again and again:Teams is the user interface (and by the way, it’s worth noting that Microsoft also demonstrated explicit Teams app development), the web is the I/O layer, Fluid is the API, and the Microsoft Graph is the data layer. Actual operating systems like Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android are basically OEMs.What was striking to me aboutMicrosoft’s announcement of Copilot Wave 2, is how this strategy has been seamlessly adapted for AI. CEO Satya Nadella saidin the pre-recorded video announcing Wave 2:You can think of Copilot as the UI for AI. It helps you break down these siloes between your work artifacts, your communications, and your business processes. And we’re just getting started. In fact, with scaling laws, as AI becomes more capable and even agentic, the models themselves become more of a commodity, and all the value gets created by you how steer, ground, fine-tune these models with your business data and workflow. And how it composes with the UI layer of human to AI to human interaction becomes critical.Today we’re announcing Wave 2 of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You’ll see us evolve Copilot in three major ways: first, it’s about bringing the web plus work plus pages together as the new AI system for knowledge work. With Pages we’ll show you how Copilot can take any information from the web or your work and turn it into a multiplayer AI-powered canvas. You can ideate with AI and collaborate with other people. It’s just magical. Just like the PC birthed office productivity tools as we know them today, and the web makes those canvases collaborative, every platform shift has changed work artifacts in fundamental ways, and Pages is the first new artifact for the AI age.Here is another video explaining the idea behind Pages:To get their work done, users need to integrate different kinds of data from different sources; data-rich content is hard to share across applications and across platforms. New functionality is hard to integrate. Users must focus on their tools, not their work.Oh, oops, that’s from theOpenDoc Technology Intro, which continues:OpenDoc addresses this need for task-centric computing by making it easy to integrate different content types and functionality rather than copy-and-paste data from one application to another, a user can drag-and-drop their favorite features, such as tools to hand text, graphics, or Internet connections into one seamless workspace.Copilot Pages is obviously dramatically different than OpenDoc’s unwieldy attempt of embedding different applications within one document, but it’s striking how similar the vision is, including the provisions for 3rd-party software; back to Nadella:We will show you how you can extend Copilot with agents. Copilot is becoming this new enterprise orchestration layer. Yesterday’s bespoke interactions with siloed business applications will just simply become Copilot agents.And back to OpenDoc:OpenDoc is based on the concept of component software. Components are small, self-contained reusable modules that can be easily assembled into a seamless solution. Whether you’re a commercial developer, an in-house developer, or a custom solution builder, component software will provide the solution for delivering the most flexible solutions at the lowest costs.Time will tell if Pages and Agents — components, really — fare better than OpenDoc; what was notable is that I skipped over the second of the three ways Nadella said that Microsoft was evolving Copilot. That section was all about applications, including using AI to manage your Outlook inbox, leverage Python in Excel, and build decks in PowerPoint. Those use cases are a lot less forward-looking; they’re also a lot more likely to gain traction, at least in the short term, given they fit into how people already work. Meanwhile, the weight of the dream of the unified workspace has now been transferred to AI; there’s a good chance Copilot Pages are much more viable than past efforts, but there is still the matter of getting workers to actually use them.As an aside, it’s notable that Nadella so casually discussed models being commoditized; this is the latest example ofa dramatic change of tonesince last November’s OpenAI upheaval.Salesforce AgentsFromBloomberg:Salesforce Inc. is unveiling a pivot in its artificial intelligence strategy this week at its annual Dreamforce conference, now saying that its AI tools can handle tasks without human supervision and changing the way it charges for software.The company is famous for ushering in the era of software as a service, which involves renting access to computer applications via a subscription. But as generative AI shakes up the industry, Salesforce is rethinking its business model for the emerging technology. The software giant will charge $2 per conversation held by its new “agents” — generative AI built to handle tasks like customer service or scheduling sales meetings without the need for human supervision. The new pricing strategy also seeks to protect Salesforce if AI contributes to future job losses and business customers have fewer workers to buy subscriptions to the company’s software.Salesforce is even leaning into the employee-replacement potential of the new technology. Its new AI agents will let companies increase their workforce capacity during busy periods without having to hire additional full-time employees or “gig workers,” Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said Tuesday during a keynote speech at the company’s annual Dreamforce conference.Benioff took an explicit shot at Microsoft’s Copilot approach in hisDreamforce keynote, titled “Welcome to Agentforce”; after talking about Salesforce’s foray into what he called the first wave of AI — deep learning-driven predictions with Einstein — Benioff dismissed Copilots as the unsatisfactory second wave:We moved into this Copilot world, but the Copilot world has been kind of a hit-and-miss world. The Copilot world where customers have said to us “Hey, I got these Copilots but they’re not exactly performing as we want them to. We don’t see how that Copilot world is going to get us to the real vision of artificial intelligence of augmentation of productivity, of better business results that we’ve been looking for. We just don’t see Copilot as that key step for our future.” In some ways, they kind of looked at Copilot as the new Microsoft Clippy, and I get that.But it was pushing us, and they were trying to say, what is the next step? And we are now really at that moment. That is why this show is our most important Dreamforce ever. There’s no question this is the most exciting Dreamforce and the most important Dreamforce. What you’re going to see at this show is technology like you have never seen before…The first time you build and deploy your first autonomous agent for your company that is going to help you to be more productive, to augment your employees, and to get these better business results, you’re going to remember that like the first time it was in your Waymo. This is the 3rd wave of AI. It’s agents.Benioff went on to argue that Salesforce could leverage all of the data it already had to not augment humans, but to do many of their jobs directly; that’s where the pricing was notable. Microsoft charges a per-seat fee for Copilot, which fits the idea of making your employees more productive; Salesforce is pricing its agent capabilities on a usage bases (i.e. $2 per completed customer service interaction), which speaks to its vision of providing cheaper and more scalable employee-like capabilities.Of course this needs to actually work; I’m sure the jury will be out on that for a while. I must say, though, I find Benioff’s vision more compelling than Nadella’s, at least in terms of large enterprise companies. On one hand, Microsoft’s Copilot approach is much more realistic and in line with today’s AI capabilities; the problem, though, isthe human element: people have to actually take the initiative to use a Copilot. Salesforce’s proposed agent approach sidesteps the challenge of changing user behavior completely by proposing that companies simply hire AI agents and get on with it.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AIDateTuesday, September 24, 2024Windows ReturnsDateTuesday, May 21, 2024Windows and the AI Platform ShiftDateWednesday, May 24, 2023←Unity Scraps Runtime Fee, Back to Reality, Sony PlayStation ProAn Interview with Craig Moffett About Apple and Telecoms→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Copilot Pages, Salesforce AgentsWednesday, September 18, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On this week’sMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed politics as monoculture and startups in China and the E.U.On to the Update:Copilot PagesFromThe Verge:Microsoft is announcing its new Copilot Pages feature today, which is designed to be a canvas for “multiplayer AI collaboration.” Copilot Pages lets you use Microsoft’s Copilot chatbot and pull responses into a new page where they can be edited collaboratively with others…Pages starts rolling out to Microsoft 365 Copilot customers today and will be generally available to all subscribers later this month. It builds on top of Microsoft’s collaborative work with Loop, a Notion competitor that includes futuristic Lego-like Office documents.You can share Copilot Pages with just a link, and colleagues can immediately start editing them just like they would a shared Word document. You can also embed Copilot Pages into other pages as components. As it’s tied to Microsoft’s new BizChat, a work hub for Copilot, you can also pull data from the web or from work files to create a project plan, meeting notes, a business pitch, and much more. Microsoft sees Copilot Pages as a new pattern of work that includes humans and AI input in a single canvas.Microsoft Loop is built on the company’s Fluid Framework; I wrote about Fluidback in 2020and how it reminded me of OpenDoc, a technology Apple sought to popularize in the 1990s:OpenDoc was created by Apple in 1992 with the idea of shifting productivity from an application-centric model to a document-centric one; there would be different reusable components, like a text editor, a chart maker, an image editor, etc., that could be dynamically combined to create a document. Moreover, each of those components would be defined by the OpenDoc standard, such that different vendors could create and open components built by other vendors on unique operating systems.The alternative was the increasing Microsoft hegemony in Office applications; in that model documents were subservient to the applications that created them, but the implication was that Microsoft dominated the market. The problem for Apple and its partners, though, was not only that Microsoft had significantly more market share, particularly in enterprises that actually needed word processors, spreadsheets, and presentation software, but that the application model was simply a much better approach for the personal computer era. Given the lack of computing power and lack of connectivity, it made much more sense to have compatible documents made by common applications than to try and create common documents with compatible components — at least with the level of complexity implicit in OpenDoc.Fluid struck me as a callback to the OpenDoc idea, but a much more viable one, given the increased ubiquity of networking, which made it possible to keep various components in sync. What was notable is that it was Microsoft now pushing that vision, in service of its larger project to own enterprise data, particularly since the rise of mobile meant it no longer could count on controlling the underlying operating system. Continuing from that Update:The way to think about Teams is that from Microsoft’s perspective it is the operating system, and the company couldn’t have been more explicit about that fact at Build. This graphic came up again and again:Teams is the user interface (and by the way, it’s worth noting that Microsoft also demonstrated explicit Teams app development), the web is the I/O layer, Fluid is the API, and the Microsoft Graph is the data layer. Actual operating systems like Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android are basically OEMs.What was striking to me aboutMicrosoft’s announcement of Copilot Wave 2, is how this strategy has been seamlessly adapted for AI. CEO Satya Nadella saidin the pre-recorded video announcing Wave 2:You can think of Copilot as the UI for AI. It helps you break down these siloes between your work artifacts, your communications, and your business processes. And we’re just getting started. In fact, with scaling laws, as AI becomes more capable and even agentic, the models themselves become more of a commodity, and all the value gets created by you how steer, ground, fine-tune these models with your business data and workflow. And how it composes with the UI layer of human to AI to human interaction becomes critical.Today we’re announcing Wave 2 of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You’ll see us evolve Copilot in three major ways: first, it’s about bringing the web plus work plus pages together as the new AI system for knowledge work. With Pages we’ll show you how Copilot can take any information from the web or your work and turn it into a multiplayer AI-powered canvas. You can ideate with AI and collaborate with other people. It’s just magical. Just like the PC birthed office productivity tools as we know them today, and the web makes those canvases collaborative, every platform shift has changed work artifacts in fundamental ways, and Pages is the first new artifact for the AI age.Here is another video explaining the idea behind Pages:To get their work done, users need to integrate different kinds of data from different sources; data-rich content is hard to share across applications and across platforms. New functionality is hard to integrate. Users must focus on their tools, not their work.Oh, oops, that’s from theOpenDoc Technology Intro, which continues:OpenDoc addresses this need for task-centric computing by making it easy to integrate different content types and functionality rather than copy-and-paste data from one application to another, a user can drag-and-drop their favorite features, such as tools to hand text, graphics, or Internet connections into one seamless workspace.Copilot Pages is obviously dramatically different than OpenDoc’s unwieldy attempt of embedding different applications within one document, but it’s striking how similar the vision is, including the provisions for 3rd-party software; back to Nadella:We will show you how you can extend Copilot with agents. Copilot is becoming this new enterprise orchestration layer. Yesterday’s bespoke interactions with siloed business applications will just simply become Copilot agents.And back to OpenDoc:OpenDoc is based on the concept of component software. Components are small, self-contained reusable modules that can be easily assembled into a seamless solution. Whether you’re a commercial developer, an in-house developer, or a custom solution builder, component software will provide the solution for delivering the most flexible solutions at the lowest costs.Time will tell if Pages and Agents — components, really — fare better than OpenDoc; what was notable is that I skipped over the second of the three ways Nadella said that Microsoft was evolving Copilot. That section was all about applications, including using AI to manage your Outlook inbox, leverage Python in Excel, and build decks in PowerPoint. Those use cases are a lot less forward-looking; they’re also a lot more likely to gain traction, at least in the short term, given they fit into how people already work. Meanwhile, the weight of the dream of the unified workspace has now been transferred to AI; there’s a good chance Copilot Pages are much more viable than past efforts, but there is still the matter of getting workers to actually use them.As an aside, it’s notable that Nadella so casually discussed models being commoditized; this is the latest example ofa dramatic change of tonesince last November’s OpenAI upheaval.Salesforce AgentsFromBloomberg:Salesforce Inc. is unveiling a pivot in its artificial intelligence strategy this week at its annual Dreamforce conference, now saying that its AI tools can handle tasks without human supervision and changing the way it charges for software.The company is famous for ushering in the era of software as a service, which involves renting access to computer applications via a subscription. But as generative AI shakes up the industry, Salesforce is rethinking its business model for the emerging technology. The software giant will charge $2 per conversation held by its new “agents” — generative AI built to handle tasks like customer service or scheduling sales meetings without the need for human supervision. The new pricing strategy also seeks to protect Salesforce if AI contributes to future job losses and business customers have fewer workers to buy subscriptions to the company’s software.Salesforce is even leaning into the employee-replacement potential of the new technology. Its new AI agents will let companies increase their workforce capacity during busy periods without having to hire additional full-time employees or “gig workers,” Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said Tuesday during a keynote speech at the company’s annual Dreamforce conference.Benioff took an explicit shot at Microsoft’s Copilot approach in hisDreamforce keynote, titled “Welcome to Agentforce”; after talking about Salesforce’s foray into what he called the first wave of AI — deep learning-driven predictions with Einstein — Benioff dismissed Copilots as the unsatisfactory second wave:We moved into this Copilot world, but the Copilot world has been kind of a hit-and-miss world. The Copilot world where customers have said to us “Hey, I got these Copilots but they’re not exactly performing as we want them to. We don’t see how that Copilot world is going to get us to the real vision of artificial intelligence of augmentation of productivity, of better business results that we’ve been looking for. We just don’t see Copilot as that key step for our future.” In some ways, they kind of looked at Copilot as the new Microsoft Clippy, and I get that.But it was pushing us, and they were trying to say, what is the next step? And we are now really at that moment. That is why this show is our most important Dreamforce ever. There’s no question this is the most exciting Dreamforce and the most important Dreamforce. What you’re going to see at this show is technology like you have never seen before…The first time you build and deploy your first autonomous agent for your company that is going to help you to be more productive, to augment your employees, and to get these better business results, you’re going to remember that like the first time it was in your Waymo. This is the 3rd wave of AI. It’s agents.Benioff went on to argue that Salesforce could leverage all of the data it already had to not augment humans, but to do many of their jobs directly; that’s where the pricing was notable. Microsoft charges a per-seat fee for Copilot, which fits the idea of making your employees more productive; Salesforce is pricing its agent capabilities on a usage bases (i.e. $2 per completed customer service interaction), which speaks to its vision of providing cheaper and more scalable employee-like capabilities.Of course this needs to actually work; I’m sure the jury will be out on that for a while. I must say, though, I find Benioff’s vision more compelling than Nadella’s, at least in terms of large enterprise companies. On one hand, Microsoft’s Copilot approach is much more realistic and in line with today’s AI capabilities; the problem, though, isthe human element: people have to actually take the initiative to use a Copilot. Salesforce’s proposed agent approach sidesteps the challenge of changing user behavior completely by proposing that companies simply hire AI agents and get on with it.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AIDateTuesday, September 24, 2024Windows ReturnsDateTuesday, May 21, 2024Windows and the AI Platform ShiftDateWednesday, May 24, 2023←Unity Scraps Runtime Fee, Back to Reality, Sony PlayStation ProAn Interview with Craig Moffett About Apple and Telecoms→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Copilot Pages, Salesforce AgentsWednesday, September 18, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On this week’sMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed politics as monoculture and startups in China and the E.U.On to the Update:Copilot PagesFromThe Verge:Microsoft is announcing its new Copilot Pages feature today, which is designed to be a canvas for “multiplayer AI collaboration.” Copilot Pages lets you use Microsoft’s Copilot chatbot and pull responses into a new page where they can be edited collaboratively with others…Pages starts rolling out to Microsoft 365 Copilot customers today and will be generally available to all subscribers later this month. It builds on top of Microsoft’s collaborative work with Loop, a Notion competitor that includes futuristic Lego-like Office documents.You can share Copilot Pages with just a link, and colleagues can immediately start editing them just like they would a shared Word document. You can also embed Copilot Pages into other pages as components. As it’s tied to Microsoft’s new BizChat, a work hub for Copilot, you can also pull data from the web or from work files to create a project plan, meeting notes, a business pitch, and much more. Microsoft sees Copilot Pages as a new pattern of work that includes humans and AI input in a single canvas.Microsoft Loop is built on the company’s Fluid Framework; I wrote about Fluidback in 2020and how it reminded me of OpenDoc, a technology Apple sought to popularize in the 1990s:OpenDoc was created by Apple in 1992 with the idea of shifting productivity from an application-centric model to a document-centric one; there would be different reusable components, like a text editor, a chart maker, an image editor, etc., that could be dynamically combined to create a document. Moreover, each of those components would be defined by the OpenDoc standard, such that different vendors could create and open components built by other vendors on unique operating systems.The alternative was the increasing Microsoft hegemony in Office applications; in that model documents were subservient to the applications that created them, but the implication was that Microsoft dominated the market. The problem for Apple and its partners, though, was not only that Microsoft had significantly more market share, particularly in enterprises that actually needed word processors, spreadsheets, and presentation software, but that the application model was simply a much better approach for the personal computer era. Given the lack of computing power and lack of connectivity, it made much more sense to have compatible documents made by common applications than to try and create common documents with compatible components — at least with the level of complexity implicit in OpenDoc.Fluid struck me as a callback to the OpenDoc idea, but a much more viable one, given the increased ubiquity of networking, which made it possible to keep various components in sync. What was notable is that it was Microsoft now pushing that vision, in service of its larger project to own enterprise data, particularly since the rise of mobile meant it no longer could count on controlling the underlying operating system. Continuing from that Update:The way to think about Teams is that from Microsoft’s perspective it is the operating system, and the company couldn’t have been more explicit about that fact at Build. This graphic came up again and again:Teams is the user interface (and by the way, it’s worth noting that Microsoft also demonstrated explicit Teams app development), the web is the I/O layer, Fluid is the API, and the Microsoft Graph is the data layer. Actual operating systems like Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android are basically OEMs.What was striking to me aboutMicrosoft’s announcement of Copilot Wave 2, is how this strategy has been seamlessly adapted for AI. CEO Satya Nadella saidin the pre-recorded video announcing Wave 2:You can think of Copilot as the UI for AI. It helps you break down these siloes between your work artifacts, your communications, and your business processes. And we’re just getting started. In fact, with scaling laws, as AI becomes more capable and even agentic, the models themselves become more of a commodity, and all the value gets created by you how steer, ground, fine-tune these models with your business data and workflow. And how it composes with the UI layer of human to AI to human interaction becomes critical.Today we’re announcing Wave 2 of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You’ll see us evolve Copilot in three major ways: first, it’s about bringing the web plus work plus pages together as the new AI system for knowledge work. With Pages we’ll show you how Copilot can take any information from the web or your work and turn it into a multiplayer AI-powered canvas. You can ideate with AI and collaborate with other people. It’s just magical. Just like the PC birthed office productivity tools as we know them today, and the web makes those canvases collaborative, every platform shift has changed work artifacts in fundamental ways, and Pages is the first new artifact for the AI age.Here is another video explaining the idea behind Pages:To get their work done, users need to integrate different kinds of data from different sources; data-rich content is hard to share across applications and across platforms. New functionality is hard to integrate. Users must focus on their tools, not their work.Oh, oops, that’s from theOpenDoc Technology Intro, which continues:OpenDoc addresses this need for task-centric computing by making it easy to integrate different content types and functionality rather than copy-and-paste data from one application to another, a user can drag-and-drop their favorite features, such as tools to hand text, graphics, or Internet connections into one seamless workspace.Copilot Pages is obviously dramatically different than OpenDoc’s unwieldy attempt of embedding different applications within one document, but it’s striking how similar the vision is, including the provisions for 3rd-party software; back to Nadella:We will show you how you can extend Copilot with agents. Copilot is becoming this new enterprise orchestration layer. Yesterday’s bespoke interactions with siloed business applications will just simply become Copilot agents.And back to OpenDoc:OpenDoc is based on the concept of component software. Components are small, self-contained reusable modules that can be easily assembled into a seamless solution. Whether you’re a commercial developer, an in-house developer, or a custom solution builder, component software will provide the solution for delivering the most flexible solutions at the lowest costs.Time will tell if Pages and Agents — components, really — fare better than OpenDoc; what was notable is that I skipped over the second of the three ways Nadella said that Microsoft was evolving Copilot. That section was all about applications, including using AI to manage your Outlook inbox, leverage Python in Excel, and build decks in PowerPoint. Those use cases are a lot less forward-looking; they’re also a lot more likely to gain traction, at least in the short term, given they fit into how people already work. Meanwhile, the weight of the dream of the unified workspace has now been transferred to AI; there’s a good chance Copilot Pages are much more viable than past efforts, but there is still the matter of getting workers to actually use them.As an aside, it’s notable that Nadella so casually discussed models being commoditized; this is the latest example ofa dramatic change of tonesince last November’s OpenAI upheaval.Salesforce AgentsFromBloomberg:Salesforce Inc. is unveiling a pivot in its artificial intelligence strategy this week at its annual Dreamforce conference, now saying that its AI tools can handle tasks without human supervision and changing the way it charges for software.The company is famous for ushering in the era of software as a service, which involves renting access to computer applications via a subscription. But as generative AI shakes up the industry, Salesforce is rethinking its business model for the emerging technology. The software giant will charge $2 per conversation held by its new “agents” — generative AI built to handle tasks like customer service or scheduling sales meetings without the need for human supervision. The new pricing strategy also seeks to protect Salesforce if AI contributes to future job losses and business customers have fewer workers to buy subscriptions to the company’s software.Salesforce is even leaning into the employee-replacement potential of the new technology. Its new AI agents will let companies increase their workforce capacity during busy periods without having to hire additional full-time employees or “gig workers,” Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said Tuesday during a keynote speech at the company’s annual Dreamforce conference.Benioff took an explicit shot at Microsoft’s Copilot approach in hisDreamforce keynote, titled “Welcome to Agentforce”; after talking about Salesforce’s foray into what he called the first wave of AI — deep learning-driven predictions with Einstein — Benioff dismissed Copilots as the unsatisfactory second wave:We moved into this Copilot world, but the Copilot world has been kind of a hit-and-miss world. The Copilot world where customers have said to us “Hey, I got these Copilots but they’re not exactly performing as we want them to. We don’t see how that Copilot world is going to get us to the real vision of artificial intelligence of augmentation of productivity, of better business results that we’ve been looking for. We just don’t see Copilot as that key step for our future.” In some ways, they kind of looked at Copilot as the new Microsoft Clippy, and I get that.But it was pushing us, and they were trying to say, what is the next step? And we are now really at that moment. That is why this show is our most important Dreamforce ever. There’s no question this is the most exciting Dreamforce and the most important Dreamforce. What you’re going to see at this show is technology like you have never seen before…The first time you build and deploy your first autonomous agent for your company that is going to help you to be more productive, to augment your employees, and to get these better business results, you’re going to remember that like the first time it was in your Waymo. This is the 3rd wave of AI. It’s agents.Benioff went on to argue that Salesforce could leverage all of the data it already had to not augment humans, but to do many of their jobs directly; that’s where the pricing was notable. Microsoft charges a per-seat fee for Copilot, which fits the idea of making your employees more productive; Salesforce is pricing its agent capabilities on a usage bases (i.e. $2 per completed customer service interaction), which speaks to its vision of providing cheaper and more scalable employee-like capabilities.Of course this needs to actually work; I’m sure the jury will be out on that for a while. I must say, though, I find Benioff’s vision more compelling than Nadella’s, at least in terms of large enterprise companies. On one hand, Microsoft’s Copilot approach is much more realistic and in line with today’s AI capabilities; the problem, though, isthe human element: people have to actually take the initiative to use a Copilot. Salesforce’s proposed agent approach sidesteps the challenge of changing user behavior completely by proposing that companies simply hire AI agents and get on with it.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AIDateTuesday, September 24, 2024Windows ReturnsDateTuesday, May 21, 2024Windows and the AI Platform ShiftDateWednesday, May 24, 2023←Unity Scraps Runtime Fee, Back to Reality, Sony PlayStation ProAn Interview with Craig Moffett About Apple and Telecoms→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On this week’sMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed politics as monoculture and startups in China and the E.U.On to the Update:Copilot PagesFromThe Verge:Microsoft is announcing its new Copilot Pages feature today, which is designed to be a canvas for “multiplayer AI collaboration.” Copilot Pages lets you use Microsoft’s Copilot chatbot and pull responses into a new page where they can be edited collaboratively with others…Pages starts rolling out to Microsoft 365 Copilot customers today and will be generally available to all subscribers later this month. It builds on top of Microsoft’s collaborative work with Loop, a Notion competitor that includes futuristic Lego-like Office documents.You can share Copilot Pages with just a link, and colleagues can immediately start editing them just like they would a shared Word document. You can also embed Copilot Pages into other pages as components. As it’s tied to Microsoft’s new BizChat, a work hub for Copilot, you can also pull data from the web or from work files to create a project plan, meeting notes, a business pitch, and much more. Microsoft sees Copilot Pages as a new pattern of work that includes humans and AI input in a single canvas.Microsoft Loop is built on the company’s Fluid Framework; I wrote about Fluidback in 2020and how it reminded me of OpenDoc, a technology Apple sought to popularize in the 1990s:OpenDoc was created by Apple in 1992 with the idea of shifting productivity from an application-centric model to a document-centric one; there would be different reusable components, like a text editor, a chart maker, an image editor, etc., that could be dynamically combined to create a document. Moreover, each of those components would be defined by the OpenDoc standard, such that different vendors could create and open components built by other vendors on unique operating systems.The alternative was the increasing Microsoft hegemony in Office applications; in that model documents were subservient to the applications that created them, but the implication was that Microsoft dominated the market. The problem for Apple and its partners, though, was not only that Microsoft had significantly more market share, particularly in enterprises that actually needed word processors, spreadsheets, and presentation software, but that the application model was simply a much better approach for the personal computer era. Given the lack of computing power and lack of connectivity, it made much more sense to have compatible documents made by common applications than to try and create common documents with compatible components — at least with the level of complexity implicit in OpenDoc.Fluid struck me as a callback to the OpenDoc idea, but a much more viable one, given the increased ubiquity of networking, which made it possible to keep various components in sync. What was notable is that it was Microsoft now pushing that vision, in service of its larger project to own enterprise data, particularly since the rise of mobile meant it no longer could count on controlling the underlying operating system. Continuing from that Update:The way to think about Teams is that from Microsoft’s perspective it is the operating system, and the company couldn’t have been more explicit about that fact at Build. This graphic came up again and again:Teams is the user interface (and by the way, it’s worth noting that Microsoft also demonstrated explicit Teams app development), the web is the I/O layer, Fluid is the API, and the Microsoft Graph is the data layer. Actual operating systems like Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android are basically OEMs.What was striking to me aboutMicrosoft’s announcement of Copilot Wave 2, is how this strategy has been seamlessly adapted for AI. CEO Satya Nadella saidin the pre-recorded video announcing Wave 2:You can think of Copilot as the UI for AI. It helps you break down these siloes between your work artifacts, your communications, and your business processes. And we’re just getting started. In fact, with scaling laws, as AI becomes more capable and even agentic, the models themselves become more of a commodity, and all the value gets created by you how steer, ground, fine-tune these models with your business data and workflow. And how it composes with the UI layer of human to AI to human interaction becomes critical.Today we’re announcing Wave 2 of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You’ll see us evolve Copilot in three major ways: first, it’s about bringing the web plus work plus pages together as the new AI system for knowledge work. With Pages we’ll show you how Copilot can take any information from the web or your work and turn it into a multiplayer AI-powered canvas. You can ideate with AI and collaborate with other people. It’s just magical. Just like the PC birthed office productivity tools as we know them today, and the web makes those canvases collaborative, every platform shift has changed work artifacts in fundamental ways, and Pages is the first new artifact for the AI age.Here is another video explaining the idea behind Pages:To get their work done, users need to integrate different kinds of data from different sources; data-rich content is hard to share across applications and across platforms. New functionality is hard to integrate. Users must focus on their tools, not their work.Oh, oops, that’s from theOpenDoc Technology Intro, which continues:OpenDoc addresses this need for task-centric computing by making it easy to integrate different content types and functionality rather than copy-and-paste data from one application to another, a user can drag-and-drop their favorite features, such as tools to hand text, graphics, or Internet connections into one seamless workspace.Copilot Pages is obviously dramatically different than OpenDoc’s unwieldy attempt of embedding different applications within one document, but it’s striking how similar the vision is, including the provisions for 3rd-party software; back to Nadella:We will show you how you can extend Copilot with agents. Copilot is becoming this new enterprise orchestration layer. Yesterday’s bespoke interactions with siloed business applications will just simply become Copilot agents.And back to OpenDoc:OpenDoc is based on the concept of component software. Components are small, self-contained reusable modules that can be easily assembled into a seamless solution. Whether you’re a commercial developer, an in-house developer, or a custom solution builder, component software will provide the solution for delivering the most flexible solutions at the lowest costs.Time will tell if Pages and Agents — components, really — fare better than OpenDoc; what was notable is that I skipped over the second of the three ways Nadella said that Microsoft was evolving Copilot. That section was all about applications, including using AI to manage your Outlook inbox, leverage Python in Excel, and build decks in PowerPoint. Those use cases are a lot less forward-looking; they’re also a lot more likely to gain traction, at least in the short term, given they fit into how people already work. Meanwhile, the weight of the dream of the unified workspace has now been transferred to AI; there’s a good chance Copilot Pages are much more viable than past efforts, but there is still the matter of getting workers to actually use them.As an aside, it’s notable that Nadella so casually discussed models being commoditized; this is the latest example ofa dramatic change of tonesince last November’s OpenAI upheaval.Salesforce AgentsFromBloomberg:Salesforce Inc. is unveiling a pivot in its artificial intelligence strategy this week at its annual Dreamforce conference, now saying that its AI tools can handle tasks without human supervision and changing the way it charges for software.The company is famous for ushering in the era of software as a service, which involves renting access to computer applications via a subscription. But as generative AI shakes up the industry, Salesforce is rethinking its business model for the emerging technology. The software giant will charge $2 per conversation held by its new “agents” — generative AI built to handle tasks like customer service or scheduling sales meetings without the need for human supervision. The new pricing strategy also seeks to protect Salesforce if AI contributes to future job losses and business customers have fewer workers to buy subscriptions to the company’s software.Salesforce is even leaning into the employee-replacement potential of the new technology. Its new AI agents will let companies increase their workforce capacity during busy periods without having to hire additional full-time employees or “gig workers,” Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said Tuesday during a keynote speech at the company’s annual Dreamforce conference.Benioff took an explicit shot at Microsoft’s Copilot approach in hisDreamforce keynote, titled “Welcome to Agentforce”; after talking about Salesforce’s foray into what he called the first wave of AI — deep learning-driven predictions with Einstein — Benioff dismissed Copilots as the unsatisfactory second wave:We moved into this Copilot world, but the Copilot world has been kind of a hit-and-miss world. The Copilot world where customers have said to us “Hey, I got these Copilots but they’re not exactly performing as we want them to. We don’t see how that Copilot world is going to get us to the real vision of artificial intelligence of augmentation of productivity, of better business results that we’ve been looking for. We just don’t see Copilot as that key step for our future.” In some ways, they kind of looked at Copilot as the new Microsoft Clippy, and I get that.But it was pushing us, and they were trying to say, what is the next step? And we are now really at that moment. That is why this show is our most important Dreamforce ever. There’s no question this is the most exciting Dreamforce and the most important Dreamforce. What you’re going to see at this show is technology like you have never seen before…The first time you build and deploy your first autonomous agent for your company that is going to help you to be more productive, to augment your employees, and to get these better business results, you’re going to remember that like the first time it was in your Waymo. This is the 3rd wave of AI. It’s agents.Benioff went on to argue that Salesforce could leverage all of the data it already had to not augment humans, but to do many of their jobs directly; that’s where the pricing was notable. Microsoft charges a per-seat fee for Copilot, which fits the idea of making your employees more productive; Salesforce is pricing its agent capabilities on a usage bases (i.e. $2 per completed customer service interaction), which speaks to its vision of providing cheaper and more scalable employee-like capabilities.Of course this needs to actually work; I’m sure the jury will be out on that for a while. I must say, though, I find Benioff’s vision more compelling than Nadella’s, at least in terms of large enterprise companies. On one hand, Microsoft’s Copilot approach is much more realistic and in line with today’s AI capabilities; the problem, though, isthe human element: people have to actually take the initiative to use a Copilot. Salesforce’s proposed agent approach sidesteps the challenge of changing user behavior completely by proposing that companies simply hire AI agents and get on with it.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Microsoft is announcing its new Copilot Pages feature today, which is designed to be a canvas for “multiplayer AI collaboration.” Copilot Pages lets you use Microsoft’s Copilot chatbot and pull responses into a new page where they can be edited collaboratively with others… Pages starts rolling out to Microsoft 365 Copilot customers today and will be generally available to all subscribers later this month. It builds on top of Microsoft’s collaborative work with Loop, a Notion competitor that includes futuristic Lego-like Office documents. You can share Copilot Pages with just a link, and colleagues can immediately start editing them just like they would a shared Word document. You can also embed Copilot Pages into other pages as components. As it’s tied to Microsoft’s new BizChat, a work hub for Copilot, you can also pull data from the web or from work files to create a project plan, meeting notes, a business pitch, and much more. Microsoft sees Copilot Pages as a new pattern of work that includes humans and AI input in a single canvas. OpenDoc was created by Apple in 1992 with the idea of shifting productivity from an application-centric model to a document-centric one; there would be different reusable components, like a text editor, a chart maker, an image editor, etc., that could be dynamically combined to create a document. Moreover, each of those components would be defined by the OpenDoc standard, such that different vendors could create and open components built by other vendors on unique operating systems. The alternative was the increasing Microsoft hegemony in Office applications; in that model documents were subservient to the applications that created them, but the implication was that Microsoft dominated the market. The problem for Apple and its partners, though, was not only that Microsoft had significantly more market share, particularly in enterprises that actually needed word processors, spreadsheets, and presentation software, but that the application model was simply a much better approach for the personal computer era. Given the lack of computing power and lack of connectivity, it made much more sense to have compatible documents made by common applications than to try and create common documents with compatible components — at least with the level of complexity implicit in OpenDoc. Fluid struck me as a callback to the OpenDoc idea, but a much more viable one, given the increased ubiquity of networking, which made it possible to keep various components in sync. What was notable is that it was Microsoft now pushing that vision, in service of its larger project to own enterprise data, particularly since the rise of mobile meant it no longer could count on controlling the underlying operating system. Continuing from that Update: The way to think about Teams is that from Microsoft’s perspective it is the operating system, and the company couldn’t have been more explicit about that fact at Build. This graphic came up again and again: Teams is the user interface (and by the way, it’s worth noting that Microsoft also demonstrated explicit Teams app development), the web is the I/O layer, Fluid is the API, and the Microsoft Graph is the data layer. Actual operating systems like Windows, Mac, iOS, and Android are basically OEMs. You can think of Copilot as the UI for AI. It helps you break down these siloes between your work artifacts, your communications, and your business processes. And we’re just getting started. In fact, with scaling laws, as AI becomes more capable and even agentic, the models themselves become more of a commodity, and all the value gets created by you how steer, ground, fine-tune these models with your business data and workflow. And how it composes with the UI layer of human to AI to human interaction becomes critical. Today we’re announcing Wave 2 of Microsoft 365 Copilot. You’ll see us evolve Copilot in three major ways: first, it’s about bringing the web plus work plus pages together as the new AI system for knowledge work. With Pages we’ll show you how Copilot can take any information from the web or your work and turn it into a multiplayer AI-powered canvas. You can ideate with AI and collaborate with other people. It’s just magical. Just like the PC birthed office productivity tools as we know them today, and the web makes those canvases collaborative, every platform shift has changed work artifacts in fundamental ways, and Pages is the first new artifact for the AI age. To get their work done, users need to integrate different kinds of data from different sources; data-rich content is hard to share across applications and across platforms. New functionality is hard to integrate. Users must focus on their tools, not their work. OpenDoc addresses this need for task-centric computing by making it easy to integrate different content types and functionality rather than copy-and-paste data from one application to another, a user can drag-and-drop their favorite features, such as tools to hand text, graphics, or Internet connections into one seamless workspace. Copilot Pages is obviously dramatically different than OpenDoc’s unwieldy attempt of embedding different applications within one document, but it’s striking how similar the vision is, including the provisions for 3rd-party software; back to Nadella: We will show you how you can extend Copilot with agents. Copilot is becoming this new enterprise orchestration layer. Yesterday’s bespoke interactions with siloed business applications will just simply become Copilot agents. OpenDoc is based on the concept of component software. Components are small, self-contained reusable modules that can be easily assembled into a seamless solution. Whether you’re a commercial developer, an in-house developer, or a custom solution builder, component software will provide the solution for delivering the most flexible solutions at the lowest costs. Time will tell if Pages and Agents — components, really — fare better than OpenDoc; what was notable is that I skipped over the second of the three ways Nadella said that Microsoft was evolving Copilot. That section was all about applications, including using AI to manage your Outlook inbox, leverage Python in Excel, and build decks in PowerPoint. Those use cases are a lot less forward-looking; they’re also a lot more likely to gain traction, at least in the short term, given they fit into how people already work. Meanwhile, the weight of the dream of the unified workspace has now been transferred to AI; there’s a good chance Copilot Pages are much more viable than past efforts, but there is still the matter of getting workers to actually use them. Salesforce Inc. is unveiling a pivot in its artificial intelligence strategy this week at its annual Dreamforce conference, now saying that its AI tools can handle tasks without human supervision and changing the way it charges for software. The company is famous for ushering in the era of software as a service, which involves renting access to computer applications via a subscription. But as generative AI shakes up the industry, Salesforce is rethinking its business model for the emerging technology. The software giant will charge $2 per conversation held by its new “agents” — generative AI built to handle tasks like customer service or scheduling sales meetings without the need for human supervision. The new pricing strategy also seeks to protect Salesforce if AI contributes to future job losses and business customers have fewer workers to buy subscriptions to the company’s software. Salesforce is even leaning into the employee-replacement potential of the new technology. Its new AI agents will let companies increase their workforce capacity during busy periods without having to hire additional full-time employees or “gig workers,” Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff said Tuesday during a keynote speech at the company’s annual Dreamforce conference. Benioff took an explicit shot at Microsoft’s Copilot approach in hisDreamforce keynote, titled “Welcome to Agentforce”; after talking about Salesforce’s foray into what he called the first wave of AI — deep learning-driven predictions with Einstein — Benioff dismissed Copilots as the unsatisfactory second wave: We moved into this Copilot world, but the Copilot world has been kind of a hit-and-miss world. The Copilot world where customers have said to us “Hey, I got these Copilots but they’re not exactly performing as we want them to. We don’t see how that Copilot world is going to get us to the real vision of artificial intelligence of augmentation of productivity, of better business results that we’ve been looking for. We just don’t see Copilot as that key step for our future.” In some ways, they kind of looked at Copilot as the new Microsoft Clippy, and I get that. But it was pushing us, and they were trying to say, what is the next step? And we are now really at that moment. That is why this show is our most important Dreamforce ever. There’s no question this is the most exciting Dreamforce and the most important Dreamforce. What you’re going to see at this show is technology like you have never seen before…The first time you build and deploy your first autonomous agent for your company that is going to help you to be more productive, to augment your employees, and to get these better business results, you’re going to remember that like the first time it was in your Waymo. This is the 3rd wave of AI. It’s agents. Benioff went on to argue that Salesforce could leverage all of the data it already had to not augment humans, but to do many of their jobs directly; that’s where the pricing was notable. Microsoft charges a per-seat fee for Copilot, which fits the idea of making your employees more productive; Salesforce is pricing its agent capabilities on a usage bases (i.e. $2 per completed customer service interaction), which speaks to its vision of providing cheaper and more scalable employee-like capabilities. Of course this needs to actually work; I’m sure the jury will be out on that for a while. I must say, though, I find Benioff’s vision more compelling than Nadella’s, at least in terms of large enterprise companies. On one hand, Microsoft’s Copilot approach is much more realistic and in line with today’s AI capabilities; the problem, though, isthe human element: people have to actually take the initiative to use a Copilot. Salesforce’s proposed agent approach sidesteps the challenge of changing user behavior completely by proposing that companies simply hire AI agents and get on with it. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025