# [PODCAST] KPop Demon Hunters, Sony's Risk, The Netflix Aggregator

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/kpop-demon-hunters-sonys-risk-the-netflix-aggregator/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.neKiZ1ZJ5P9VkwJ4swIEZkkhdw4aa7eDG91N3E7gFBjb7qM1hkIL2N1d3tMNtnigiKH9TILLFUnrEkc71sKWX16fkuArkStJ2t5eEJj1mkOTDw5CnZQblsWxHlBM7F8JAOyBBIdpN-zoqwzCN5pJwS1KRGjeN8wFPzxlWgGP7Jhg8KC2RbpmbxSoOH0fse61Sivql6Bn23sk_hws98XW73GUSkqR1qNNTwVpcBsVxey4qJx8Epx0YZuTBHtvU7qmswSzo_3SALrVFhsjPHCzxUkAXEHhafqUKZy3iFs-xrcc0s2aWzGL0p1zdNUuWj9m7nKIEBFpqW0hpplQ-bofnQ
**Atlas ID**: 229533
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.856157

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirKPop Demon Hunters, Sony’s Risk, The Netflix AggregatorWednesday, August 27, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,First off, thank you to everyone for the lovely notes in response to last week’spersonal Update; I actually haven’t gotten to all of them yet, but I did finally get my desk set up — that’s how busy I’ve been over the last couple of months!To answer by far the most common question I received, I did decide to return to Wisconsin, where we regularly spend summers and already have a house. Obviously winters are going to be an entirely new adventure, and, as far as my career is concerned, this isn’t the Bay Area, but given that our motivation was the kids, we felt this was the best spot in terms of familiarity, personal support network, etc. I do tend to think about both life generally and my career specifically in terms of seasons, and Wisconsin is going to define the one we are just undertaking.Finally, I also got a lot of great feedback to yesterday’s ArticleU.S. Intel; my favorites were the ones that said they disagreed with me but appreciated me making the case. It’s a great way to approach this very fraught issue as a whole.On to the Update:KPop Demon HuntersFromVariety:“KPop Demon Hunters,” the animated phenomenon of the summer, is now the most-streamed movie in Netflix history. The film about a K-pop girl group who track down mythical monsters when not filling stadiums and arenas has overtaken “Red Notice,” an action comedy with Dwayne Johnson, Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, as the most-watched film on the service. “KPop Demon Hunters” has attracted 236 million total views compared to the 230.9 million that “Red Notice” garnered. Rounding out the top five list of films on Netflix’s most-streamed list are the Taron Egerton thriller “Carry-On,” the Leonardo DiCaprio satire “Don’t Look Up” and “The Adam Project,” an adventure film with Reynolds.“KPop Demon Hunters” scored a rare theatrical release from Netflix last weekend. The streaming service did not publicly share box office results, but sources say it was the highest-grossing movie of the weekend, earning between $18 million to $20 million. “KPop Demon Hunters” was also the most-streamed movie last week on Netflix, attracting another 25.4 million views.My kids roped me into watching KPop Demon Hunters a few weeks ago, and it’s excellent — highly recommended! Not only is the music insanely catchy, and Sony’s animation typically excellent, but the story itself has a real edge to it, with real stakes (the train scene was my favorite).You do not, however, come here for my movie reviews; what is interesting to me, and pertinent to Stratechery, are the two entities behind the hit of the summer: Sony and Netflix.Sony’s RiskI hadn’t seen Kpop Demon Hunters beforewriting about Netflix’s most recent earnings, and didn’t pay much attention to the question-and-answer about the movie fromthe earnings call:What are the learnings from the success of KPop Demon Hunters? More animated musicals with fictional bands, perhaps?Co-CEO Ted Sarandos:KPop Demon Hunters is a phenomenal success out of the gate. One of the things that I’m excited, really proud of the team over is original animation — not sequel, not live-action remake — original animation feature is very tough and has been struggling for years. And I think the fact that our biggest hits now, Leo, Sea Beast and now KPop Demon Hunters, are original animation. So we’re super thrilled about that. The mix of music and pop culture, getting it right matters, get the storytelling matters, the innovation and animation itself matters, and the fact that people are in love with this film and in love with the music from this film that will keep it going for a long time. So we’re really thrilled.And now the next beat is where does it go from here? So we put in the letter how just how successful the music has been and continues to be, and we think that will drive fandom for this fictional KPop bands that we have. But more importantly, for the song Golden and for the song Soda Pop, these are enormous hits and they all came from a film that’s available only on Netflix. So we’re really excited that we can pierce the culture with original animated features considering that folks have been poking us on it.After reading this, I don’t feel bad for missing the significance of this film, because I get the impression that on July 17, when the call happened, Netflix itself didn’t quite grasp what was happening; Sarandos was just happy to prove the company’s animation doubters wrong, with a bit in the letter about the music providing a nice ancillary benefit.A month after the callMatthew Belloni wrote in Puck:Man, Sony Pictures has suffered through a pretty brutal summer at the box office…But Sony Pictures did make one of the biggest movie sensations of the summer — a project from its animation division that cost more than $100 million to produce and will likely become a billion-dollar franchise, spawning sequels, spinoffs, music sales, Halloween costumes, and all the trimmings of a big fat Hollywood studio hit. It’s just that most of that value has and will accrue to Netflix because the movie is KPop Demon Hunters, and Sony offloaded it rather than develop it solo and release it in theaters…Have you seen the numbers? Released in June, the anime-style musical adventure about a K-pop trio who moonlight fighting underworld monsters generated another 25.9 million views this week, according to Netflix, and is now No. 2 on its all-time Top 10 list for English-language films. If this trajectory holds, as Netflix believes it will, Demon Hunters will soon pass Red Notice and its 230.9 million views to become the most-watched original film ever on the platform. At the same time, the soundtrack, featuring the fictitious band HUNTR/X and real life K-pop group Twice, currently boasts seven songs in the top 20 on Spotify’s global Top 50 list. “Golden,” an insanely catchy anthem, just hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.If you have a kid at home, like I do, he or she is likely talking about nothing else. After more than a decade in the movie business, this is arguably Netflix’s first animated megahit after many, many attempts. It’s still not quite as zeitgeisty as the biggest theatrical blockbusters, in my opinion, but it’s about as close as a movie can come without theaters. And, as we know, the animated hits can keep giving and giving. Disney favorites like Moana and Encanto still pop up in the weekly Nielsen charts thanks to rewatches. I asked John Mass, president of Content Partners, which buys and sells film libraries, to estimate how much KPop Demon Hunters will ultimately be worth to Netflix. “It’s impossible to put a value on this franchise,” he told me, “but given the viewership numbers and plans for sequels and spinoffs, and the popularity of the music, it may end up being comparable to the Disney animated hits.”We’re not ten days on from that column, and the KPop Demon Hunters penetration of the zeitgeist is only deepening, capped off by the sold out movie theaters Belloni was waiting for, but in a notable reversal, those theaters were sold outbecausethe movie started on streaming.This gets at the most interesting question raised by Belloni’s column: did Sony massively screw up by giving the movie to Netflix? I highly suggest reading the whole thing, but this is the key paragraph:Sony likes to say that it “won” the streaming wars by sitting them out and refusing to shovel money into the furnace of a mass-market service. But here’s an instance where the incentive to sell to the highest bidder ended up causing Sony to potentially leave massive amounts of money on the table, at least for this one title. Other vertically integrated entertainment companies would probably have held on to a theatrical window for a project that its execs believed could be successful, or hedged by sending it directly to its owned-and-operated streamer. In either scenario, a direct-to-streaming sequel then could be elevated to theaters if desired. Remember, Disney developed Moana 2 as a Disney+ series, then refashioned it as a theatrical film and it grossed $1 billion.I’ve long lauded Sony for its arms dealer approach (to use Belloni’s term); the rest of Hollywood suffered under the delusion that content is all that mattered, the tech was easy, and, most damagingly, completely failed to comprehend that the real challenge is acquiring and retaining customers. Sony, in contrast, decided to focus on what its core competency is — creating content — and sold to the highest bidder. It was definitely the safer approach, but one of the realities of life is that limiting downside also limits upside, and it’s hard to find a more compelling example of that principle in action.It was also the right decision. Belloni notes that Sony’s deal with Netflix — including for KPop Demon Hunters — carried the studio through COVID, and part of the path-not-traveled equation is the massive losses and uncertain future of an owned-and-operated streaming service. Sony missed out on some — OK, a lot of — upside, but it can also handle rough summers precisely because its business is right-sized and focused on doing what it does best.The Netflix AggregatorThere’s one more important question about KPop Demon Hunters that Belloni raises:The billion-dollar question: Would KPop Demon Hunters have actually been a hit in theaters? Most film people I’ve spoken to over the past two weeks believe the answer is likely no, especially with that nine-figure budget. Original animation has struggled in theaters post-Covid, and with the exception of the SpiderVerse films, the edgier, anime-style look and feel of Demon Hunters typically does not resonate with a broad theatrical audience, especially in this country.No disrespect to Millie Bobby Brown, but if you look at the Netflix all-time Top 10, many of the films do not feel “theatrical” in the modern sense. Meaning what people will watch on Netflix for “free” isn’t what they will pay to see in theaters. Plus, the film started slow on Netflix and steadily built its audience via viral chatter, consumption of the music, and the platform’s algorithm — all of which, time after time, have proven able to create huge hits. The younger Netflix audience adopted Demon Hunters as its own and is now rewatching it and rewatching it all the way to No. 1. I asked Kevin Goetz, the movie researcher and test-screening guru who counts both Netflix and Sony as clients, whether he thought Demon Hunters would have performed in theaters. “In hindsight it seems like an obvious hit,” he told me, “but I would argue that Netflix is responsible for this movie entering the cultural zeitgeist.”Not sure I totally agree. The movie started slowly on Netflix, but a traditional Sony theatrical campaign could have sold the film on its catchy music and promoted it well to the target audience in advance. Remember, Sony gradually built a theatrical hit out of Sydney Sweeney and Glen Powell in short shorts in Anyone But You, so perhaps it could have turned Demon Hunters into a summer sleeper, especially since there was zero animated competition. Disney’s Elio flopped, Universal’s The Bad Guys 2 had smaller aspirations, and both How to Train Your Dragon and Lilo & Stitch were “live-action” family films. That’s part of the reason Netflix picked June 20 as the release date.The reason it’s a billion-dollar question is because you can’t prove a counterfactual, but I’m more willing to give Netflix credit than Belloni is. This chart in his article shows why:The right side of this curve — straight line, really — shows that KPop Demon Hunters is nowhere near hitting its peak; the left side shows how that peak had to be built from nothing. Indeed, this pulls many of the points Belloni made together: how much of the struggle for original animation comes from the fact that no one goes to see movies on a lark anymore? Simply making it to the silver screen used to be the biggest hurdle; now that the theater is a destination — something you have to explicitly choose to do, instead of do on a Friday night by default — you need to actually sell, and that favors IP the audience is already familiar with.In fact, this is the most ironic capstone to Netflix’s rise and the misguided chase by studios seeking to replicate their success: the latter thought that content mattered most, but in truth great content — and again, KPop Demon Hunters is legitimately good — needs distribution and “free” access in the most convenient way possible to prove its worth. To put it another way, KPop Demon Hunters is succeeding on its own merits, but those merits only ever had a chance to matter because they were accessible on the largest streaming service.So to summarize, as I noted above, I still think that Sony did the right thing. Making movies is a high risk business, and they were right to derisk their distribution strategy; getting a guaranteed $20 million profit lets the studio keep doing what it does best. Netflix, meanwhile, releases a lot of crap, but that is simply part and parcel of taking far more bites at the content apple than anyone else. It’s the flipside of the Sony lesson above: by virtue of accepting high downside Netflix was in the position to capture massive upside when it arrived, almost completely by surprise.What will be fascinating is just how big Netflix can make KPop Demon Hunters. One thought that immediately occurred to me is that this movie might single-handedly redeem Netflix’s gaming investment; KPop Demon Hunters isn’t just a musical, it’s also a (highly stylized) fighting movie — I can picture the game mechanics already. And, of course, there is the music angle that Netflix highlighted intheir earnings letter; could Netflix come to dominate KPop just like they they do Korean Dramas?That itself points to Netflix’s other advantage, which is its worldwide content strategy. Netflix certainly didn’t create the South Korean entertainment complex, but it is better positioned than anyone else to leverage it. That’s the power of being the default streaming service — of owning distribution. That is in fact the hardest problem to solve, and the beauty of solving it is that, in the end, the best content creators happily become your commoditized suppliers. The regret arrives later.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.35: Intel and the Least Bad OptionDateFriday, August 29, 20252025.36: Google, Apple, and a Giant Sigh of ReliefDateFriday, September 5, 2025Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019←U.S. IntelNvidia Earnings, Moats and China, Nvidia vs. the AI Labs→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air KPop Demon Hunters, Sony’s Risk, The Netflix AggregatorWednesday, August 27, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,First off, thank you to everyone for the lovely notes in response to last week’spersonal Update; I actually haven’t gotten to all of them yet, but I did finally get my desk set up — that’s how busy I’ve been over the last couple of months!To answer by far the most common question I received, I did decide to return to Wisconsin, where we regularly spend summers and already have a house. Obviously winters are going to be an entirely new adventure, and, as far as my career is concerned, this isn’t the Bay Area, but given that our motivation was the kids, we felt this was the best spot in terms of familiarity, personal support network, etc. I do tend to think about both life generally and my career specifically in terms of seasons, and Wisconsin is going to define the one we are just undertaking.Finally, I also got a lot of great feedback to yesterday’s ArticleU.S. Intel; my favorites were the ones that said they disagreed with me but appreciated me making the case. It’s a great way to approach this very fraught issue as a whole.On to the Update:KPop Demon HuntersFromVariety:“KPop Demon Hunters,” the animated phenomenon of the summer, is now the most-streamed movie in Netflix history. The film about a K-pop girl group who track down mythical monsters when not filling stadiums and arenas has overtaken “Red Notice,” an action comedy with Dwayne Johnson, Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, as the most-watched film on the service. “KPop Demon Hunters” has attracted 236 million total views compared to the 230.9 million that “Red Notice” garnered. Rounding out the top five list of films on Netflix’s most-streamed list are the Taron Egerton thriller “Carry-On,” the Leonardo DiCaprio satire “Don’t Look Up” and “The Adam Project,” an adventure film with Reynolds.“KPop Demon Hunters” scored a rare theatrical release from Netflix last weekend. The streaming service did not publicly share box office results, but sources say it was the highest-grossing movie of the weekend, earning between $18 million to $20 million. “KPop Demon Hunters” was also the most-streamed movie last week on Netflix, attracting another 25.4 million views.My kids roped me into watching KPop Demon Hunters a few weeks ago, and it’s excellent — highly recommended! Not only is the music insanely catchy, and Sony’s animation typically excellent, but the story itself has a real edge to it, with real stakes (the train scene was my favorite).You do not, however, come here for my movie reviews; what is interesting to me, and pertinent to Stratechery, are the two entities behind the hit of the summer: Sony and Netflix.Sony’s RiskI hadn’t seen Kpop Demon Hunters beforewriting about Netflix’s most recent earnings, and didn’t pay much attention to the question-and-answer about the movie fromthe earnings call:What are the learnings from the success of KPop Demon Hunters? More animated musicals with fictional bands, perhaps?Co-CEO Ted Sarandos:KPop Demon Hunters is a phenomenal success out of the gate. One of the things that I’m excited, really proud of the team over is original animation — not sequel, not live-action remake — original animation feature is very tough and has been struggling for years. And I think the fact that our biggest hits now, Leo, Sea Beast and now KPop Demon Hunters, are original animation. So we’re super thrilled about that. The mix of music and pop culture, getting it right matters, get the storytelling matters, the innovation and animation itself matters, and the fact that people are in love with this film and in love with the music from this film that will keep it going for a long time. So we’re really thrilled.And now the next beat is where does it go from here? So we put in the letter how just how successful the music has been and continues to be, and we think that will drive fandom for this fictional KPop bands that we have. But more importantly, for the song Golden and for the song Soda Pop, these are enormous hits and they all came from a film that’s available only on Netflix. So we’re really excited that we can pierce the culture with original animated features considering that folks have been poking us on it.After reading this, I don’t feel bad for missing the significance of this film, because I get the impression that on July 17, when the call happened, Netflix itself didn’t quite grasp what was happening; Sarandos was just happy to prove the company’s animation doubters wrong, with a bit in the letter about the music providing a nice ancillary benefit.A month after the callMatthew Belloni wrote in Puck:Man, Sony Pictures has suffered through a pretty brutal summer at the box office…But Sony Pictures did make one of the biggest movie sensations of the summer — a project from its animation division that cost more than $100 million to produce and will likely become a billion-dollar franchise, spawning sequels, spinoffs, music sales, Halloween costumes, and all the trimmings of a big fat Hollywood studio hit. It’s just that most of that value has and will accrue to Netflix because the movie is KPop Demon Hunters, and Sony offloaded it rather than develop it solo and release it in theaters…Have you seen the numbers? Released in June, the anime-style musical adventure about a K-pop trio who moonlight fighting underworld monsters generated another 25.9 million views this week, according to Netflix, and is now No. 2 on its all-time Top 10 list for English-language films. If this trajectory holds, as Netflix believes it will, Demon Hunters will soon pass Red Notice and its 230.9 million views to become the most-watched original film ever on the platform. At the same time, the soundtrack, featuring the fictitious band HUNTR/X and real life K-pop group Twice, currently boasts seven songs in the top 20 on Spotify’s global Top 50 list. “Golden,” an insanely catchy anthem, just hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.If you have a kid at home, like I do, he or she is likely talking about nothing else. After more than a decade in the movie business, this is arguably Netflix’s first animated megahit after many, many attempts. It’s still not quite as zeitgeisty as the biggest theatrical blockbusters, in my opinion, but it’s about as close as a movie can come without theaters. And, as we know, the animated hits can keep giving and giving. Disney favorites like Moana and Encanto still pop up in the weekly Nielsen charts thanks to rewatches. I asked John Mass, president of Content Partners, which buys and sells film libraries, to estimate how much KPop Demon Hunters will ultimately be worth to Netflix. “It’s impossible to put a value on this franchise,” he told me, “but given the viewership numbers and plans for sequels and spinoffs, and the popularity of the music, it may end up being comparable to the Disney animated hits.”We’re not ten days on from that column, and the KPop Demon Hunters penetration of the zeitgeist is only deepening, capped off by the sold out movie theaters Belloni was waiting for, but in a notable reversal, those theaters were sold outbecausethe movie started on streaming.This gets at the most interesting question raised by Belloni’s column: did Sony massively screw up by giving the movie to Netflix? I highly suggest reading the whole thing, but this is the key paragraph:Sony likes to say that it “won” the streaming wars by sitting them out and refusing to shovel money into the furnace of a mass-market service. But here’s an instance where the incentive to sell to the highest bidder ended up causing Sony to potentially leave massive amounts of money on the table, at least for this one title. Other vertically integrated entertainment companies would probably have held on to a theatrical window for a project that its execs believed could be successful, or hedged by sending it directly to its owned-and-operated streamer. In either scenario, a direct-to-streaming sequel then could be elevated to theaters if desired. Remember, Disney developed Moana 2 as a Disney+ series, then refashioned it as a theatrical film and it grossed $1 billion.I’ve long lauded Sony for its arms dealer approach (to use Belloni’s term); the rest of Hollywood suffered under the delusion that content is all that mattered, the tech was easy, and, most damagingly, completely failed to comprehend that the real challenge is acquiring and retaining customers. Sony, in contrast, decided to focus on what its core competency is — creating content — and sold to the highest bidder. It was definitely the safer approach, but one of the realities of life is that limiting downside also limits upside, and it’s hard to find a more compelling example of that principle in action.It was also the right decision. Belloni notes that Sony’s deal with Netflix — including for KPop Demon Hunters — carried the studio through COVID, and part of the path-not-traveled equation is the massive losses and uncertain future of an owned-and-operated streaming service. Sony missed out on some — OK, a lot of — upside, but it can also handle rough summers precisely because its business is right-sized and focused on doing what it does best.The Netflix AggregatorThere’s one more important question about KPop Demon Hunters that Belloni raises:The billion-dollar question: Would KPop Demon Hunters have actually been a hit in theaters? Most film people I’ve spoken to over the past two weeks believe the answer is likely no, especially with that nine-figure budget. Original animation has struggled in theaters post-Covid, and with the exception of the SpiderVerse films, the edgier, anime-style look and feel of Demon Hunters typically does not resonate with a broad theatrical audience, especially in this country.No disrespect to Millie Bobby Brown, but if you look at the Netflix all-time Top 10, many of the films do not feel “theatrical” in the modern sense. Meaning what people will watch on Netflix for “free” isn’t what they will pay to see in theaters. Plus, the film started slow on Netflix and steadily built its audience via viral chatter, consumption of the music, and the platform’s algorithm — all of which, time after time, have proven able to create huge hits. The younger Netflix audience adopted Demon Hunters as its own and is now rewatching it and rewatching it all the way to No. 1. I asked Kevin Goetz, the movie researcher and test-screening guru who counts both Netflix and Sony as clients, whether he thought Demon Hunters would have performed in theaters. “In hindsight it seems like an obvious hit,” he told me, “but I would argue that Netflix is responsible for this movie entering the cultural zeitgeist.”Not sure I totally agree. The movie started slowly on Netflix, but a traditional Sony theatrical campaign could have sold the film on its catchy music and promoted it well to the target audience in advance. Remember, Sony gradually built a theatrical hit out of Sydney Sweeney and Glen Powell in short shorts in Anyone But You, so perhaps it could have turned Demon Hunters into a summer sleeper, especially since there was zero animated competition. Disney’s Elio flopped, Universal’s The Bad Guys 2 had smaller aspirations, and both How to Train Your Dragon and Lilo & Stitch were “live-action” family films. That’s part of the reason Netflix picked June 20 as the release date.The reason it’s a billion-dollar question is because you can’t prove a counterfactual, but I’m more willing to give Netflix credit than Belloni is. This chart in his article shows why:The right side of this curve — straight line, really — shows that KPop Demon Hunters is nowhere near hitting its peak; the left side shows how that peak had to be built from nothing. Indeed, this pulls many of the points Belloni made together: how much of the struggle for original animation comes from the fact that no one goes to see movies on a lark anymore? Simply making it to the silver screen used to be the biggest hurdle; now that the theater is a destination — something you have to explicitly choose to do, instead of do on a Friday night by default — you need to actually sell, and that favors IP the audience is already familiar with.In fact, this is the most ironic capstone to Netflix’s rise and the misguided chase by studios seeking to replicate their success: the latter thought that content mattered most, but in truth great content — and again, KPop Demon Hunters is legitimately good — needs distribution and “free” access in the most convenient way possible to prove its worth. To put it another way, KPop Demon Hunters is succeeding on its own merits, but those merits only ever had a chance to matter because they were accessible on the largest streaming service.So to summarize, as I noted above, I still think that Sony did the right thing. Making movies is a high risk business, and they were right to derisk their distribution strategy; getting a guaranteed $20 million profit lets the studio keep doing what it does best. Netflix, meanwhile, releases a lot of crap, but that is simply part and parcel of taking far more bites at the content apple than anyone else. It’s the flipside of the Sony lesson above: by virtue of accepting high downside Netflix was in the position to capture massive upside when it arrived, almost completely by surprise.What will be fascinating is just how big Netflix can make KPop Demon Hunters. One thought that immediately occurred to me is that this movie might single-handedly redeem Netflix’s gaming investment; KPop Demon Hunters isn’t just a musical, it’s also a (highly stylized) fighting movie — I can picture the game mechanics already. And, of course, there is the music angle that Netflix highlighted intheir earnings letter; could Netflix come to dominate KPop just like they they do Korean Dramas?That itself points to Netflix’s other advantage, which is its worldwide content strategy. Netflix certainly didn’t create the South Korean entertainment complex, but it is better positioned than anyone else to leverage it. That’s the power of being the default streaming service — of owning distribution. That is in fact the hardest problem to solve, and the beauty of solving it is that, in the end, the best content creators happily become your commoditized suppliers. The regret arrives later.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.35: Intel and the Least Bad OptionDateFriday, August 29, 20252025.36: Google, Apple, and a Giant Sigh of ReliefDateFriday, September 5, 2025Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019←U.S. IntelNvidia Earnings, Moats and China, Nvidia vs. the AI Labs→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All KPop Demon Hunters, Sony’s Risk, The Netflix AggregatorWednesday, August 27, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,First off, thank you to everyone for the lovely notes in response to last week’spersonal Update; I actually haven’t gotten to all of them yet, but I did finally get my desk set up — that’s how busy I’ve been over the last couple of months!To answer by far the most common question I received, I did decide to return to Wisconsin, where we regularly spend summers and already have a house. Obviously winters are going to be an entirely new adventure, and, as far as my career is concerned, this isn’t the Bay Area, but given that our motivation was the kids, we felt this was the best spot in terms of familiarity, personal support network, etc. I do tend to think about both life generally and my career specifically in terms of seasons, and Wisconsin is going to define the one we are just undertaking.Finally, I also got a lot of great feedback to yesterday’s ArticleU.S. Intel; my favorites were the ones that said they disagreed with me but appreciated me making the case. It’s a great way to approach this very fraught issue as a whole.On to the Update:KPop Demon HuntersFromVariety:“KPop Demon Hunters,” the animated phenomenon of the summer, is now the most-streamed movie in Netflix history. The film about a K-pop girl group who track down mythical monsters when not filling stadiums and arenas has overtaken “Red Notice,” an action comedy with Dwayne Johnson, Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, as the most-watched film on the service. “KPop Demon Hunters” has attracted 236 million total views compared to the 230.9 million that “Red Notice” garnered. Rounding out the top five list of films on Netflix’s most-streamed list are the Taron Egerton thriller “Carry-On,” the Leonardo DiCaprio satire “Don’t Look Up” and “The Adam Project,” an adventure film with Reynolds.“KPop Demon Hunters” scored a rare theatrical release from Netflix last weekend. The streaming service did not publicly share box office results, but sources say it was the highest-grossing movie of the weekend, earning between $18 million to $20 million. “KPop Demon Hunters” was also the most-streamed movie last week on Netflix, attracting another 25.4 million views.My kids roped me into watching KPop Demon Hunters a few weeks ago, and it’s excellent — highly recommended! Not only is the music insanely catchy, and Sony’s animation typically excellent, but the story itself has a real edge to it, with real stakes (the train scene was my favorite).You do not, however, come here for my movie reviews; what is interesting to me, and pertinent to Stratechery, are the two entities behind the hit of the summer: Sony and Netflix.Sony’s RiskI hadn’t seen Kpop Demon Hunters beforewriting about Netflix’s most recent earnings, and didn’t pay much attention to the question-and-answer about the movie fromthe earnings call:What are the learnings from the success of KPop Demon Hunters? More animated musicals with fictional bands, perhaps?Co-CEO Ted Sarandos:KPop Demon Hunters is a phenomenal success out of the gate. One of the things that I’m excited, really proud of the team over is original animation — not sequel, not live-action remake — original animation feature is very tough and has been struggling for years. And I think the fact that our biggest hits now, Leo, Sea Beast and now KPop Demon Hunters, are original animation. So we’re super thrilled about that. The mix of music and pop culture, getting it right matters, get the storytelling matters, the innovation and animation itself matters, and the fact that people are in love with this film and in love with the music from this film that will keep it going for a long time. So we’re really thrilled.And now the next beat is where does it go from here? So we put in the letter how just how successful the music has been and continues to be, and we think that will drive fandom for this fictional KPop bands that we have. But more importantly, for the song Golden and for the song Soda Pop, these are enormous hits and they all came from a film that’s available only on Netflix. So we’re really excited that we can pierce the culture with original animated features considering that folks have been poking us on it.After reading this, I don’t feel bad for missing the significance of this film, because I get the impression that on July 17, when the call happened, Netflix itself didn’t quite grasp what was happening; Sarandos was just happy to prove the company’s animation doubters wrong, with a bit in the letter about the music providing a nice ancillary benefit.A month after the callMatthew Belloni wrote in Puck:Man, Sony Pictures has suffered through a pretty brutal summer at the box office…But Sony Pictures did make one of the biggest movie sensations of the summer — a project from its animation division that cost more than $100 million to produce and will likely become a billion-dollar franchise, spawning sequels, spinoffs, music sales, Halloween costumes, and all the trimmings of a big fat Hollywood studio hit. It’s just that most of that value has and will accrue to Netflix because the movie is KPop Demon Hunters, and Sony offloaded it rather than develop it solo and release it in theaters…Have you seen the numbers? Released in June, the anime-style musical adventure about a K-pop trio who moonlight fighting underworld monsters generated another 25.9 million views this week, according to Netflix, and is now No. 2 on its all-time Top 10 list for English-language films. If this trajectory holds, as Netflix believes it will, Demon Hunters will soon pass Red Notice and its 230.9 million views to become the most-watched original film ever on the platform. At the same time, the soundtrack, featuring the fictitious band HUNTR/X and real life K-pop group Twice, currently boasts seven songs in the top 20 on Spotify’s global Top 50 list. “Golden,” an insanely catchy anthem, just hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.If you have a kid at home, like I do, he or she is likely talking about nothing else. After more than a decade in the movie business, this is arguably Netflix’s first animated megahit after many, many attempts. It’s still not quite as zeitgeisty as the biggest theatrical blockbusters, in my opinion, but it’s about as close as a movie can come without theaters. And, as we know, the animated hits can keep giving and giving. Disney favorites like Moana and Encanto still pop up in the weekly Nielsen charts thanks to rewatches. I asked John Mass, president of Content Partners, which buys and sells film libraries, to estimate how much KPop Demon Hunters will ultimately be worth to Netflix. “It’s impossible to put a value on this franchise,” he told me, “but given the viewership numbers and plans for sequels and spinoffs, and the popularity of the music, it may end up being comparable to the Disney animated hits.”We’re not ten days on from that column, and the KPop Demon Hunters penetration of the zeitgeist is only deepening, capped off by the sold out movie theaters Belloni was waiting for, but in a notable reversal, those theaters were sold outbecausethe movie started on streaming.This gets at the most interesting question raised by Belloni’s column: did Sony massively screw up by giving the movie to Netflix? I highly suggest reading the whole thing, but this is the key paragraph:Sony likes to say that it “won” the streaming wars by sitting them out and refusing to shovel money into the furnace of a mass-market service. But here’s an instance where the incentive to sell to the highest bidder ended up causing Sony to potentially leave massive amounts of money on the table, at least for this one title. Other vertically integrated entertainment companies would probably have held on to a theatrical window for a project that its execs believed could be successful, or hedged by sending it directly to its owned-and-operated streamer. In either scenario, a direct-to-streaming sequel then could be elevated to theaters if desired. Remember, Disney developed Moana 2 as a Disney+ series, then refashioned it as a theatrical film and it grossed $1 billion.I’ve long lauded Sony for its arms dealer approach (to use Belloni’s term); the rest of Hollywood suffered under the delusion that content is all that mattered, the tech was easy, and, most damagingly, completely failed to comprehend that the real challenge is acquiring and retaining customers. Sony, in contrast, decided to focus on what its core competency is — creating content — and sold to the highest bidder. It was definitely the safer approach, but one of the realities of life is that limiting downside also limits upside, and it’s hard to find a more compelling example of that principle in action.It was also the right decision. Belloni notes that Sony’s deal with Netflix — including for KPop Demon Hunters — carried the studio through COVID, and part of the path-not-traveled equation is the massive losses and uncertain future of an owned-and-operated streaming service. Sony missed out on some — OK, a lot of — upside, but it can also handle rough summers precisely because its business is right-sized and focused on doing what it does best.The Netflix AggregatorThere’s one more important question about KPop Demon Hunters that Belloni raises:The billion-dollar question: Would KPop Demon Hunters have actually been a hit in theaters? Most film people I’ve spoken to over the past two weeks believe the answer is likely no, especially with that nine-figure budget. Original animation has struggled in theaters post-Covid, and with the exception of the SpiderVerse films, the edgier, anime-style look and feel of Demon Hunters typically does not resonate with a broad theatrical audience, especially in this country.No disrespect to Millie Bobby Brown, but if you look at the Netflix all-time Top 10, many of the films do not feel “theatrical” in the modern sense. Meaning what people will watch on Netflix for “free” isn’t what they will pay to see in theaters. Plus, the film started slow on Netflix and steadily built its audience via viral chatter, consumption of the music, and the platform’s algorithm — all of which, time after time, have proven able to create huge hits. The younger Netflix audience adopted Demon Hunters as its own and is now rewatching it and rewatching it all the way to No. 1. I asked Kevin Goetz, the movie researcher and test-screening guru who counts both Netflix and Sony as clients, whether he thought Demon Hunters would have performed in theaters. “In hindsight it seems like an obvious hit,” he told me, “but I would argue that Netflix is responsible for this movie entering the cultural zeitgeist.”Not sure I totally agree. The movie started slowly on Netflix, but a traditional Sony theatrical campaign could have sold the film on its catchy music and promoted it well to the target audience in advance. Remember, Sony gradually built a theatrical hit out of Sydney Sweeney and Glen Powell in short shorts in Anyone But You, so perhaps it could have turned Demon Hunters into a summer sleeper, especially since there was zero animated competition. Disney’s Elio flopped, Universal’s The Bad Guys 2 had smaller aspirations, and both How to Train Your Dragon and Lilo & Stitch were “live-action” family films. That’s part of the reason Netflix picked June 20 as the release date.The reason it’s a billion-dollar question is because you can’t prove a counterfactual, but I’m more willing to give Netflix credit than Belloni is. This chart in his article shows why:The right side of this curve — straight line, really — shows that KPop Demon Hunters is nowhere near hitting its peak; the left side shows how that peak had to be built from nothing. Indeed, this pulls many of the points Belloni made together: how much of the struggle for original animation comes from the fact that no one goes to see movies on a lark anymore? Simply making it to the silver screen used to be the biggest hurdle; now that the theater is a destination — something you have to explicitly choose to do, instead of do on a Friday night by default — you need to actually sell, and that favors IP the audience is already familiar with.In fact, this is the most ironic capstone to Netflix’s rise and the misguided chase by studios seeking to replicate their success: the latter thought that content mattered most, but in truth great content — and again, KPop Demon Hunters is legitimately good — needs distribution and “free” access in the most convenient way possible to prove its worth. To put it another way, KPop Demon Hunters is succeeding on its own merits, but those merits only ever had a chance to matter because they were accessible on the largest streaming service.So to summarize, as I noted above, I still think that Sony did the right thing. Making movies is a high risk business, and they were right to derisk their distribution strategy; getting a guaranteed $20 million profit lets the studio keep doing what it does best. Netflix, meanwhile, releases a lot of crap, but that is simply part and parcel of taking far more bites at the content apple than anyone else. It’s the flipside of the Sony lesson above: by virtue of accepting high downside Netflix was in the position to capture massive upside when it arrived, almost completely by surprise.What will be fascinating is just how big Netflix can make KPop Demon Hunters. One thought that immediately occurred to me is that this movie might single-handedly redeem Netflix’s gaming investment; KPop Demon Hunters isn’t just a musical, it’s also a (highly stylized) fighting movie — I can picture the game mechanics already. And, of course, there is the music angle that Netflix highlighted intheir earnings letter; could Netflix come to dominate KPop just like they they do Korean Dramas?That itself points to Netflix’s other advantage, which is its worldwide content strategy. Netflix certainly didn’t create the South Korean entertainment complex, but it is better positioned than anyone else to leverage it. That’s the power of being the default streaming service — of owning distribution. That is in fact the hardest problem to solve, and the beauty of solving it is that, in the end, the best content creators happily become your commoditized suppliers. The regret arrives later.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.35: Intel and the Least Bad OptionDateFriday, August 29, 20252025.36: Google, Apple, and a Giant Sigh of ReliefDateFriday, September 5, 2025Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019←U.S. IntelNvidia Earnings, Moats and China, Nvidia vs. the AI Labs→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,First off, thank you to everyone for the lovely notes in response to last week’spersonal Update; I actually haven’t gotten to all of them yet, but I did finally get my desk set up — that’s how busy I’ve been over the last couple of months!To answer by far the most common question I received, I did decide to return to Wisconsin, where we regularly spend summers and already have a house. Obviously winters are going to be an entirely new adventure, and, as far as my career is concerned, this isn’t the Bay Area, but given that our motivation was the kids, we felt this was the best spot in terms of familiarity, personal support network, etc. I do tend to think about both life generally and my career specifically in terms of seasons, and Wisconsin is going to define the one we are just undertaking.Finally, I also got a lot of great feedback to yesterday’s ArticleU.S. Intel; my favorites were the ones that said they disagreed with me but appreciated me making the case. It’s a great way to approach this very fraught issue as a whole.On to the Update:KPop Demon HuntersFromVariety:“KPop Demon Hunters,” the animated phenomenon of the summer, is now the most-streamed movie in Netflix history. The film about a K-pop girl group who track down mythical monsters when not filling stadiums and arenas has overtaken “Red Notice,” an action comedy with Dwayne Johnson, Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, as the most-watched film on the service. “KPop Demon Hunters” has attracted 236 million total views compared to the 230.9 million that “Red Notice” garnered. Rounding out the top five list of films on Netflix’s most-streamed list are the Taron Egerton thriller “Carry-On,” the Leonardo DiCaprio satire “Don’t Look Up” and “The Adam Project,” an adventure film with Reynolds.“KPop Demon Hunters” scored a rare theatrical release from Netflix last weekend. The streaming service did not publicly share box office results, but sources say it was the highest-grossing movie of the weekend, earning between $18 million to $20 million. “KPop Demon Hunters” was also the most-streamed movie last week on Netflix, attracting another 25.4 million views.My kids roped me into watching KPop Demon Hunters a few weeks ago, and it’s excellent — highly recommended! Not only is the music insanely catchy, and Sony’s animation typically excellent, but the story itself has a real edge to it, with real stakes (the train scene was my favorite).You do not, however, come here for my movie reviews; what is interesting to me, and pertinent to Stratechery, are the two entities behind the hit of the summer: Sony and Netflix.Sony’s RiskI hadn’t seen Kpop Demon Hunters beforewriting about Netflix’s most recent earnings, and didn’t pay much attention to the question-and-answer about the movie fromthe earnings call:What are the learnings from the success of KPop Demon Hunters? More animated musicals with fictional bands, perhaps?Co-CEO Ted Sarandos:KPop Demon Hunters is a phenomenal success out of the gate. One of the things that I’m excited, really proud of the team over is original animation — not sequel, not live-action remake — original animation feature is very tough and has been struggling for years. And I think the fact that our biggest hits now, Leo, Sea Beast and now KPop Demon Hunters, are original animation. So we’re super thrilled about that. The mix of music and pop culture, getting it right matters, get the storytelling matters, the innovation and animation itself matters, and the fact that people are in love with this film and in love with the music from this film that will keep it going for a long time. So we’re really thrilled.And now the next beat is where does it go from here? So we put in the letter how just how successful the music has been and continues to be, and we think that will drive fandom for this fictional KPop bands that we have. But more importantly, for the song Golden and for the song Soda Pop, these are enormous hits and they all came from a film that’s available only on Netflix. So we’re really excited that we can pierce the culture with original animated features considering that folks have been poking us on it.After reading this, I don’t feel bad for missing the significance of this film, because I get the impression that on July 17, when the call happened, Netflix itself didn’t quite grasp what was happening; Sarandos was just happy to prove the company’s animation doubters wrong, with a bit in the letter about the music providing a nice ancillary benefit.A month after the callMatthew Belloni wrote in Puck:Man, Sony Pictures has suffered through a pretty brutal summer at the box office…But Sony Pictures did make one of the biggest movie sensations of the summer — a project from its animation division that cost more than $100 million to produce and will likely become a billion-dollar franchise, spawning sequels, spinoffs, music sales, Halloween costumes, and all the trimmings of a big fat Hollywood studio hit. It’s just that most of that value has and will accrue to Netflix because the movie is KPop Demon Hunters, and Sony offloaded it rather than develop it solo and release it in theaters…Have you seen the numbers? Released in June, the anime-style musical adventure about a K-pop trio who moonlight fighting underworld monsters generated another 25.9 million views this week, according to Netflix, and is now No. 2 on its all-time Top 10 list for English-language films. If this trajectory holds, as Netflix believes it will, Demon Hunters will soon pass Red Notice and its 230.9 million views to become the most-watched original film ever on the platform. At the same time, the soundtrack, featuring the fictitious band HUNTR/X and real life K-pop group Twice, currently boasts seven songs in the top 20 on Spotify’s global Top 50 list. “Golden,” an insanely catchy anthem, just hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.If you have a kid at home, like I do, he or she is likely talking about nothing else. After more than a decade in the movie business, this is arguably Netflix’s first animated megahit after many, many attempts. It’s still not quite as zeitgeisty as the biggest theatrical blockbusters, in my opinion, but it’s about as close as a movie can come without theaters. And, as we know, the animated hits can keep giving and giving. Disney favorites like Moana and Encanto still pop up in the weekly Nielsen charts thanks to rewatches. I asked John Mass, president of Content Partners, which buys and sells film libraries, to estimate how much KPop Demon Hunters will ultimately be worth to Netflix. “It’s impossible to put a value on this franchise,” he told me, “but given the viewership numbers and plans for sequels and spinoffs, and the popularity of the music, it may end up being comparable to the Disney animated hits.”We’re not ten days on from that column, and the KPop Demon Hunters penetration of the zeitgeist is only deepening, capped off by the sold out movie theaters Belloni was waiting for, but in a notable reversal, those theaters were sold outbecausethe movie started on streaming.This gets at the most interesting question raised by Belloni’s column: did Sony massively screw up by giving the movie to Netflix? I highly suggest reading the whole thing, but this is the key paragraph:Sony likes to say that it “won” the streaming wars by sitting them out and refusing to shovel money into the furnace of a mass-market service. But here’s an instance where the incentive to sell to the highest bidder ended up causing Sony to potentially leave massive amounts of money on the table, at least for this one title. Other vertically integrated entertainment companies would probably have held on to a theatrical window for a project that its execs believed could be successful, or hedged by sending it directly to its owned-and-operated streamer. In either scenario, a direct-to-streaming sequel then could be elevated to theaters if desired. Remember, Disney developed Moana 2 as a Disney+ series, then refashioned it as a theatrical film and it grossed $1 billion.I’ve long lauded Sony for its arms dealer approach (to use Belloni’s term); the rest of Hollywood suffered under the delusion that content is all that mattered, the tech was easy, and, most damagingly, completely failed to comprehend that the real challenge is acquiring and retaining customers. Sony, in contrast, decided to focus on what its core competency is — creating content — and sold to the highest bidder. It was definitely the safer approach, but one of the realities of life is that limiting downside also limits upside, and it’s hard to find a more compelling example of that principle in action.It was also the right decision. Belloni notes that Sony’s deal with Netflix — including for KPop Demon Hunters — carried the studio through COVID, and part of the path-not-traveled equation is the massive losses and uncertain future of an owned-and-operated streaming service. Sony missed out on some — OK, a lot of — upside, but it can also handle rough summers precisely because its business is right-sized and focused on doing what it does best.The Netflix AggregatorThere’s one more important question about KPop Demon Hunters that Belloni raises:The billion-dollar question: Would KPop Demon Hunters have actually been a hit in theaters? Most film people I’ve spoken to over the past two weeks believe the answer is likely no, especially with that nine-figure budget. Original animation has struggled in theaters post-Covid, and with the exception of the SpiderVerse films, the edgier, anime-style look and feel of Demon Hunters typically does not resonate with a broad theatrical audience, especially in this country.No disrespect to Millie Bobby Brown, but if you look at the Netflix all-time Top 10, many of the films do not feel “theatrical” in the modern sense. Meaning what people will watch on Netflix for “free” isn’t what they will pay to see in theaters. Plus, the film started slow on Netflix and steadily built its audience via viral chatter, consumption of the music, and the platform’s algorithm — all of which, time after time, have proven able to create huge hits. The younger Netflix audience adopted Demon Hunters as its own and is now rewatching it and rewatching it all the way to No. 1. I asked Kevin Goetz, the movie researcher and test-screening guru who counts both Netflix and Sony as clients, whether he thought Demon Hunters would have performed in theaters. “In hindsight it seems like an obvious hit,” he told me, “but I would argue that Netflix is responsible for this movie entering the cultural zeitgeist.”Not sure I totally agree. The movie started slowly on Netflix, but a traditional Sony theatrical campaign could have sold the film on its catchy music and promoted it well to the target audience in advance. Remember, Sony gradually built a theatrical hit out of Sydney Sweeney and Glen Powell in short shorts in Anyone But You, so perhaps it could have turned Demon Hunters into a summer sleeper, especially since there was zero animated competition. Disney’s Elio flopped, Universal’s The Bad Guys 2 had smaller aspirations, and both How to Train Your Dragon and Lilo & Stitch were “live-action” family films. That’s part of the reason Netflix picked June 20 as the release date.The reason it’s a billion-dollar question is because you can’t prove a counterfactual, but I’m more willing to give Netflix credit than Belloni is. This chart in his article shows why:The right side of this curve — straight line, really — shows that KPop Demon Hunters is nowhere near hitting its peak; the left side shows how that peak had to be built from nothing. Indeed, this pulls many of the points Belloni made together: how much of the struggle for original animation comes from the fact that no one goes to see movies on a lark anymore? Simply making it to the silver screen used to be the biggest hurdle; now that the theater is a destination — something you have to explicitly choose to do, instead of do on a Friday night by default — you need to actually sell, and that favors IP the audience is already familiar with.In fact, this is the most ironic capstone to Netflix’s rise and the misguided chase by studios seeking to replicate their success: the latter thought that content mattered most, but in truth great content — and again, KPop Demon Hunters is legitimately good — needs distribution and “free” access in the most convenient way possible to prove its worth. To put it another way, KPop Demon Hunters is succeeding on its own merits, but those merits only ever had a chance to matter because they were accessible on the largest streaming service.So to summarize, as I noted above, I still think that Sony did the right thing. Making movies is a high risk business, and they were right to derisk their distribution strategy; getting a guaranteed $20 million profit lets the studio keep doing what it does best. Netflix, meanwhile, releases a lot of crap, but that is simply part and parcel of taking far more bites at the content apple than anyone else. It’s the flipside of the Sony lesson above: by virtue of accepting high downside Netflix was in the position to capture massive upside when it arrived, almost completely by surprise.What will be fascinating is just how big Netflix can make KPop Demon Hunters. One thought that immediately occurred to me is that this movie might single-handedly redeem Netflix’s gaming investment; KPop Demon Hunters isn’t just a musical, it’s also a (highly stylized) fighting movie — I can picture the game mechanics already. And, of course, there is the music angle that Netflix highlighted intheir earnings letter; could Netflix come to dominate KPop just like they they do Korean Dramas?That itself points to Netflix’s other advantage, which is its worldwide content strategy. Netflix certainly didn’t create the South Korean entertainment complex, but it is better positioned than anyone else to leverage it. That’s the power of being the default streaming service — of owning distribution. That is in fact the hardest problem to solve, and the beauty of solving it is that, in the end, the best content creators happily become your commoditized suppliers. The regret arrives later.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email First off, thank you to everyone for the lovely notes in response to last week’spersonal Update; I actually haven’t gotten to all of them yet, but I did finally get my desk set up — that’s how busy I’ve been over the last couple of months! To answer by far the most common question I received, I did decide to return to Wisconsin, where we regularly spend summers and already have a house. Obviously winters are going to be an entirely new adventure, and, as far as my career is concerned, this isn’t the Bay Area, but given that our motivation was the kids, we felt this was the best spot in terms of familiarity, personal support network, etc. I do tend to think about both life generally and my career specifically in terms of seasons, and Wisconsin is going to define the one we are just undertaking. Finally, I also got a lot of great feedback to yesterday’s ArticleU.S. Intel; my favorites were the ones that said they disagreed with me but appreciated me making the case. It’s a great way to approach this very fraught issue as a whole. “KPop Demon Hunters,” the animated phenomenon of the summer, is now the most-streamed movie in Netflix history. The film about a K-pop girl group who track down mythical monsters when not filling stadiums and arenas has overtaken “Red Notice,” an action comedy with Dwayne Johnson, Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, as the most-watched film on the service. “KPop Demon Hunters” has attracted 236 million total views compared to the 230.9 million that “Red Notice” garnered. Rounding out the top five list of films on Netflix’s most-streamed list are the Taron Egerton thriller “Carry-On,” the Leonardo DiCaprio satire “Don’t Look Up” and “The Adam Project,” an adventure film with Reynolds. “KPop Demon Hunters” scored a rare theatrical release from Netflix last weekend. The streaming service did not publicly share box office results, but sources say it was the highest-grossing movie of the weekend, earning between $18 million to $20 million. “KPop Demon Hunters” was also the most-streamed movie last week on Netflix, attracting another 25.4 million views. My kids roped me into watching KPop Demon Hunters a few weeks ago, and it’s excellent — highly recommended! Not only is the music insanely catchy, and Sony’s animation typically excellent, but the story itself has a real edge to it, with real stakes (the train scene was my favorite). Co-CEO Ted Sarandos:KPop Demon Hunters is a phenomenal success out of the gate. One of the things that I’m excited, really proud of the team over is original animation — not sequel, not live-action remake — original animation feature is very tough and has been struggling for years. And I think the fact that our biggest hits now, Leo, Sea Beast and now KPop Demon Hunters, are original animation. So we’re super thrilled about that. The mix of music and pop culture, getting it right matters, get the storytelling matters, the innovation and animation itself matters, and the fact that people are in love with this film and in love with the music from this film that will keep it going for a long time. So we’re really thrilled. And now the next beat is where does it go from here? So we put in the letter how just how successful the music has been and continues to be, and we think that will drive fandom for this fictional KPop bands that we have. But more importantly, for the song Golden and for the song Soda Pop, these are enormous hits and they all came from a film that’s available only on Netflix. So we’re really excited that we can pierce the culture with original animated features considering that folks have been poking us on it. After reading this, I don’t feel bad for missing the significance of this film, because I get the impression that on July 17, when the call happened, Netflix itself didn’t quite grasp what was happening; Sarandos was just happy to prove the company’s animation doubters wrong, with a bit in the letter about the music providing a nice ancillary benefit. Man, Sony Pictures has suffered through a pretty brutal summer at the box office…But Sony Pictures did make one of the biggest movie sensations of the summer — a project from its animation division that cost more than $100 million to produce and will likely become a billion-dollar franchise, spawning sequels, spinoffs, music sales, Halloween costumes, and all the trimmings of a big fat Hollywood studio hit. It’s just that most of that value has and will accrue to Netflix because the movie is KPop Demon Hunters, and Sony offloaded it rather than develop it solo and release it in theaters… Have you seen the numbers? Released in June, the anime-style musical adventure about a K-pop trio who moonlight fighting underworld monsters generated another 25.9 million views this week, according to Netflix, and is now No. 2 on its all-time Top 10 list for English-language films. If this trajectory holds, as Netflix believes it will, Demon Hunters will soon pass Red Notice and its 230.9 million views to become the most-watched original film ever on the platform. At the same time, the soundtrack, featuring the fictitious band HUNTR/X and real life K-pop group Twice, currently boasts seven songs in the top 20 on Spotify’s global Top 50 list. “Golden,” an insanely catchy anthem, just hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. If you have a kid at home, like I do, he or she is likely talking about nothing else. After more than a decade in the movie business, this is arguably Netflix’s first animated megahit after many, many attempts. It’s still not quite as zeitgeisty as the biggest theatrical blockbusters, in my opinion, but it’s about as close as a movie can come without theaters. And, as we know, the animated hits can keep giving and giving. Disney favorites like Moana and Encanto still pop up in the weekly Nielsen charts thanks to rewatches. I asked John Mass, president of Content Partners, which buys and sells film libraries, to estimate how much KPop Demon Hunters will ultimately be worth to Netflix. “It’s impossible to put a value on this franchise,” he told me, “but given the viewership numbers and plans for sequels and spinoffs, and the popularity of the music, it may end up being comparable to the Disney animated hits.” We’re not ten days on from that column, and the KPop Demon Hunters penetration of the zeitgeist is only deepening, capped off by the sold out movie theaters Belloni was waiting for, but in a notable reversal, those theaters were sold outbecausethe movie started on streaming. This gets at the most interesting question raised by Belloni’s column: did Sony massively screw up by giving the movie to Netflix? I highly suggest reading the whole thing, but this is the key paragraph: Sony likes to say that it “won” the streaming wars by sitting them out and refusing to shovel money into the furnace of a mass-market service. But here’s an instance where the incentive to sell to the highest bidder ended up causing Sony to potentially leave massive amounts of money on the table, at least for this one title. Other vertically integrated entertainment companies would probably have held on to a theatrical window for a project that its execs believed could be successful, or hedged by sending it directly to its owned-and-operated streamer. In either scenario, a direct-to-streaming sequel then could be elevated to theaters if desired. Remember, Disney developed Moana 2 as a Disney+ series, then refashioned it as a theatrical film and it grossed $1 billion. I’ve long lauded Sony for its arms dealer approach (to use Belloni’s term); the rest of Hollywood suffered under the delusion that content is all that mattered, the tech was easy, and, most damagingly, completely failed to comprehend that the real challenge is acquiring and retaining customers. Sony, in contrast, decided to focus on what its core competency is — creating content — and sold to the highest bidder. It was definitely the safer approach, but one of the realities of life is that limiting downside also limits upside, and it’s hard to find a more compelling example of that principle in action. It was also the right decision. Belloni notes that Sony’s deal with Netflix — including for KPop Demon Hunters — carried the studio through COVID, and part of the path-not-traveled equation is the massive losses and uncertain future of an owned-and-operated streaming service. Sony missed out on some — OK, a lot of — upside, but it can also handle rough summers precisely because its business is right-sized and focused on doing what it does best. The billion-dollar question: Would KPop Demon Hunters have actually been a hit in theaters? Most film people I’ve spoken to over the past two weeks believe the answer is likely no, especially with that nine-figure budget. Original animation has struggled in theaters post-Covid, and with the exception of the SpiderVerse films, the edgier, anime-style look and feel of Demon Hunters typically does not resonate with a broad theatrical audience, especially in this country. No disrespect to Millie Bobby Brown, but if you look at the Netflix all-time Top 10, many of the films do not feel “theatrical” in the modern sense. Meaning what people will watch on Netflix for “free” isn’t what they will pay to see in theaters. Plus, the film started slow on Netflix and steadily built its audience via viral chatter, consumption of the music, and the platform’s algorithm — all of which, time after time, have proven able to create huge hits. The younger Netflix audience adopted Demon Hunters as its own and is now rewatching it and rewatching it all the way to No. 1. I asked Kevin Goetz, the movie researcher and test-screening guru who counts both Netflix and Sony as clients, whether he thought Demon Hunters would have performed in theaters. “In hindsight it seems like an obvious hit,” he told me, “but I would argue that Netflix is responsible for this movie entering the cultural zeitgeist.” Not sure I totally agree. The movie started slowly on Netflix, but a traditional Sony theatrical campaign could have sold the film on its catchy music and promoted it well to the target audience in advance. Remember, Sony gradually built a theatrical hit out of Sydney Sweeney and Glen Powell in short shorts in Anyone But You, so perhaps it could have turned Demon Hunters into a summer sleeper, especially since there was zero animated competition. Disney’s Elio flopped, Universal’s The Bad Guys 2 had smaller aspirations, and both How to Train Your Dragon and Lilo & Stitch were “live-action” family films. That’s part of the reason Netflix picked June 20 as the release date. The right side of this curve — straight line, really — shows that KPop Demon Hunters is nowhere near hitting its peak; the left side shows how that peak had to be built from nothing. Indeed, this pulls many of the points Belloni made together: how much of the struggle for original animation comes from the fact that no one goes to see movies on a lark anymore? Simply making it to the silver screen used to be the biggest hurdle; now that the theater is a destination — something you have to explicitly choose to do, instead of do on a Friday night by default — you need to actually sell, and that favors IP the audience is already familiar with. In fact, this is the most ironic capstone to Netflix’s rise and the misguided chase by studios seeking to replicate their success: the latter thought that content mattered most, but in truth great content — and again, KPop Demon Hunters is legitimately good — needs distribution and “free” access in the most convenient way possible to prove its worth. To put it another way, KPop Demon Hunters is succeeding on its own merits, but those merits only ever had a chance to matter because they were accessible on the largest streaming service. So to summarize, as I noted above, I still think that Sony did the right thing. Making movies is a high risk business, and they were right to derisk their distribution strategy; getting a guaranteed $20 million profit lets the studio keep doing what it does best. Netflix, meanwhile, releases a lot of crap, but that is simply part and parcel of taking far more bites at the content apple than anyone else. It’s the flipside of the Sony lesson above: by virtue of accepting high downside Netflix was in the position to capture massive upside when it arrived, almost completely by surprise. What will be fascinating is just how big Netflix can make KPop Demon Hunters. One thought that immediately occurred to me is that this movie might single-handedly redeem Netflix’s gaming investment; KPop Demon Hunters isn’t just a musical, it’s also a (highly stylized) fighting movie — I can picture the game mechanics already. And, of course, there is the music angle that Netflix highlighted intheir earnings letter; could Netflix come to dominate KPop just like they they do Korean Dramas? That itself points to Netflix’s other advantage, which is its worldwide content strategy. Netflix certainly didn’t create the South Korean entertainment complex, but it is better positioned than anyone else to leverage it. That’s the power of being the default streaming service — of owning distribution. That is in fact the hardest problem to solve, and the beauty of solving it is that, in the end, the best content creators happily become your commoditized suppliers. The regret arrives later. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025