# [PODCAST] The flight attendants of CHAOS

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/10/04/1197954201/chaos-alaska-airlines-flight-attendants-union-strike
**Atlas ID**: 229486
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.845390

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How the U.A.W. strike looks a lot like a successful strike from 30 years ago : Planet MoneyWhen contract negotiations between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union broke down in 1993, the union had a choice to make.The union — The Association of Flight Attendants-CWA — knew that if they chose to strike, Alaska Airlines could use a plan. While Alaska Airlines technically couldn't fire someone on strike, they could permanently replace the striking flight attendants with new workers. Essentially, if the union went on strike, they could risk thousands of people's jobs. The flight attendants knew they needed a counter-strategy.They went with a strategy they called CHAOS: "Create Havoc Around Our System."The strategy had two phases. Phase one: The union kept Alaska guessing about when, where, and how a strike might happen. They kept everyone, even their own members, in the dark. And in turn, Alaska Airlines had to be prepared for a strike at any place and any time. Phase two was to go on strike in a targeted and strategic way.The havoc that the flight attendants created set off a sort-of labor-dispute arms race and would go on to inspire strikes today. And, it showed how powerful it can be to introduce a little chaos into negotiations.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe flight attendants of CHAOSOctober 4, 20237:28 PM ETByNick Fountain,Kenny Malone,Jess Jiang,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerThe flight attendants of CHAOSListen·28:5128:51TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954201/1203785208" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageSeveral United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty ImagesSeveral United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty ImagesWhen contract negotiations between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union broke down in 1993, the union had a choice to make.The union — The Association of Flight Attendants-CWA — knew that if they chose to strike, Alaska Airlines could use a plan. While Alaska Airlines technically couldn't fire someone on strike, they could permanently replace the striking flight attendants with new workers. Essentially, if the union went on strike, they could risk thousands of people's jobs. The flight attendants knew they needed a counter-strategy.They went with a strategy they called CHAOS: "Create Havoc Around Our System."Sponsor MessageThe strategy had two phases. Phase one: The union kept Alaska guessing about when, where, and how a strike might happen. They kept everyone, even their own members, in the dark. And in turn, Alaska Airlines had to be prepared for a strike at any place and any time. Phase two was to go on strike in a targeted and strategic way.The havoc that the flight attendants created set off a sort-of labor-dispute arms race and would go on to inspire strikes today. And, it showed how powerful it can be to introduce a little chaos into negotiations.NationalBehind the latest UAW strike is its almost 90-year historyOur show today was hosted by Nick Fountain and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Dave Blanchard and Willa Rubin, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and audio-engineering by Hans Copeland. Ayda Pourasad helped with research. Alex Goldmark is our Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Take Me Back Again," "HIgh Plains Drifter," and "Believe"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The flight attendants of CHAOSListen·28:5128:51TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954201/1203785208" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The flight attendants of CHAOSListen·28:5128:51TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954201/1203785208" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954201/1203785208" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageSeveral United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty ImagesSeveral United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty ImagesWhen contract negotiations between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union broke down in 1993, the union had a choice to make.The union — The Association of Flight Attendants-CWA — knew that if they chose to strike, Alaska Airlines could use a plan. While Alaska Airlines technically couldn't fire someone on strike, they could permanently replace the striking flight attendants with new workers. Essentially, if the union went on strike, they could risk thousands of people's jobs. The flight attendants knew they needed a counter-strategy.They went with a strategy they called CHAOS: "Create Havoc Around Our System."Sponsor MessageThe strategy had two phases. Phase one: The union kept Alaska guessing about when, where, and how a strike might happen. They kept everyone, even their own members, in the dark. And in turn, Alaska Airlines had to be prepared for a strike at any place and any time. Phase two was to go on strike in a targeted and strategic way.The havoc that the flight attendants created set off a sort-of labor-dispute arms race and would go on to inspire strikes today. And, it showed how powerful it can be to introduce a little chaos into negotiations.NationalBehind the latest UAW strike is its almost 90-year historyOur show today was hosted by Nick Fountain and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Dave Blanchard and Willa Rubin, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and audio-engineering by Hans Copeland. Ayda Pourasad helped with research. Alex Goldmark is our Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Take Me Back Again," "HIgh Plains Drifter," and "Believe" Enlarge this imageSeveral United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty ImagesSeveral United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Images Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Images Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle caption Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide caption Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Imageshide caption Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Images Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen.Tim Boyle/Newsmakers/Getty Images Several United Airlines flight attendants wearing "CHAOS" T-shirts at a meeting to decide plans for a potential strike in 2001. CHAOS—an acronym for "Create Havoc Around Our System"—is a strike strategy first used in 1993 during a labor dispute between Alaska Airlines and their flight attendants' union. The strategy can keep a company guessing about when, where or even how a strike might happen. The union — The Association of Flight Attendants-CWA — knew that if they chose to strike, Alaska Airlines could use a plan. While Alaska Airlines technically couldn't fire someone on strike, they could permanently replace the striking flight attendants with new workers. Essentially, if the union went on strike, they could risk thousands of people's jobs. The flight attendants knew they needed a counter-strategy. The strategy had two phases. Phase one: The union kept Alaska guessing about when, where, and how a strike might happen. They kept everyone, even their own members, in the dark. And in turn, Alaska Airlines had to be prepared for a strike at any place and any time. Phase two was to go on strike in a targeted and strategic way. The havoc that the flight attendants created set off a sort-of labor-dispute arms race and would go on to inspire strikes today. And, it showed how powerful it can be to introduce a little chaos into negotiations. Our show today was hosted by Nick Fountain and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Dave Blanchard and Willa Rubin, edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and audio-engineering by Hans Copeland. Ayda Pourasad helped with research. Alex Goldmark is our Executive Producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra