# [PODCAST] The quest for the factory-built house

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/04/21/1171364556/prefab-mobile-home-double-wide-houses-expensive
**Atlas ID**: 229504
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.848442

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Why it's so hard to mass produce houses in factories : Planet MoneyImagine if we built cars the same way we build houses. First, a typical buyer would meet with the car designer, and tell them what kind of car they want. Then the designer would draw up plans for the car.The buyer would call different car builders in their town and show them the blueprints. And the builders might say, "Yeah, I can build you that car based on this blueprint. It will cost $1 million and it will be ready in a year and a half."There are lots of reasons why homes are so expensive in the U.S., zoning and land prices among them. But also, the way we build houses is very slow and very inefficient. So, why don't we build homes the way we build so many other things, by mass producing them in a factory?In this episode, the century-old dream of the factory-built house, and the possibility of a prefab future.This episode was produced by Emma Peaslee. Molly Messick edited the show, and it was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Brian Jarboe mastered the episode. Jess Jiang is our acting Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWhy it's so hard to mass produce houses in factoriesApril 21, 20236:47 PM ETByNick Fountain,Jacob Goldstein,Molly Messick,Emma PeasleeWhy it's so hard to mass produce houses in factoriesListen·26:4426:44TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1171364556/1198959512" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptFox Photos/Getty ImagesImagine if we built cars the same way we build houses. First, a typical buyer would meet with the car designer, and tell them what kind of car they want. Then the designer would draw up plans for the car. The buyer would call different car builders in their town and show them the blueprints. And the builders might say, "Yeah, I can build you that car based on this blueprint. It will cost $1 million and it will be ready in a year and a half."Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageAlexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide captiontoggle captionNick Fountain/NPRAlexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRThere are lots of reasons why homes are so expensive in the U.S., zoning and land prices among them. But also, the way we build houses is very slow and very inefficient. So, why don't we build homes the way we build so many other things, by mass producing them in a factory?In this episode, the century-old dream of the factory-built house, and the possibility of a prefab future.Planet MoneyThree Reasons for the Housing ShortageThis episode was produced by Emma Peaslee. Molly Messick edited the show, and it was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Brian Jarboe mastered the episode. Jess Jiang is our acting Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Collectible Kicks," "The Spaghetti Westerner," andRazor Sharp"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Why it's so hard to mass produce houses in factoriesListen·26:4426:44TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1171364556/1198959512" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Why it's so hard to mass produce houses in factoriesListen·26:4426:44TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1171364556/1198959512" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1171364556/1198959512" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Fox Photos/Getty ImagesImagine if we built cars the same way we build houses. First, a typical buyer would meet with the car designer, and tell them what kind of car they want. Then the designer would draw up plans for the car. The buyer would call different car builders in their town and show them the blueprints. And the builders might say, "Yeah, I can build you that car based on this blueprint. It will cost $1 million and it will be ready in a year and a half."Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageAlexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide captiontoggle captionNick Fountain/NPRAlexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRThere are lots of reasons why homes are so expensive in the U.S., zoning and land prices among them. But also, the way we build houses is very slow and very inefficient. So, why don't we build homes the way we build so many other things, by mass producing them in a factory?In this episode, the century-old dream of the factory-built house, and the possibility of a prefab future.Planet MoneyThree Reasons for the Housing ShortageThis episode was produced by Emma Peaslee. Molly Messick edited the show, and it was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Brian Jarboe mastered the episode. Jess Jiang is our acting Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Collectible Kicks," "The Spaghetti Westerner," andRazor Sharp" Imagine if we built cars the same way we build houses. First, a typical buyer would meet with the car designer, and tell them what kind of car they want. Then the designer would draw up plans for the car. The buyer would call different car builders in their town and show them the blueprints. And the builders might say, "Yeah, I can build you that car based on this blueprint. It will cost $1 million and it will be ready in a year and a half." Enlarge this imageAlexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide captiontoggle captionNick Fountain/NPRAlexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPR Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide captiontoggle captionNick Fountain/NPR Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide caption Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPRhide caption Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPR Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper.Nick Fountain/NPR Alexis Rivas stands in front of one of Cover's prefab houses in Los Angeles, CA. It takes them about a month to put together one of these houses, but they hope to make the process more efficient and, more importantly, cheaper. There are lots of reasons why homes are so expensive in the U.S., zoning and land prices among them. But also, the way we build houses is very slow and very inefficient. So, why don't we build homes the way we build so many other things, by mass producing them in a factory? Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra