# [PODCAST] TSMC Earnings, Margins and Arizona, ASML and Peak Lithography

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/tsmc-earnings-margins-and-arizona-asml-and-peak-lithography/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.pCBFZm2CfNc8Sbep0fIGZdwxN9dY-LXG_ECWaUu4wWXH6uMAqlowK4MsCQ3V82NWpDCSKg4PHJzv0ghNCKWVsMTIpd_m6-EO6CEzzB_WtJLRorScg2372dSQ25sIF9FFtFazmBe3q_VQL4VUjqV4OM7g9UcJtQSLjvD4K0T4OhdjJ5PGEtwMz7OQa2tYGqxMRsShvPLjIKjb8M0bcW-teFVTMovPb0qyWTXjwTHut6pu-aTMR6LczCneU6TzLExRXn_swYE-DBaTB-1zKr20OdDlZmzKQf7NboFOXqQ4FBd2M1YIPcucDJL31j40HMCCPHC3FyDch5-pL5PUJDl3UA
**Atlas ID**: 229679
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.937187

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirTSMC Earnings, Margins and Arizona, ASML and Peak LithographyMonday, October 21, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast Thursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussedElon Dreams and Bitter Lessons.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:The world’s largest contract chip maker reassured investors that the artificial-intelligence boom is real after reporting a record quarterly profit. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Chief Executive C.C. Wei said Thursday that revenue from AI-related servers and processors was expected to triple this year and would account for about 15% of TSMC’s total revenue…Companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in AI-related chips and infrastructure in the expectation that the technology will transform industry and daily life, but some investors have expressed doubts about whether the frenzy is sustainable. Wei said TSMC was working with most of the leading AI companies and believed the boom would continue for many years.Net profit in the July-September quarter rose 54% to the equivalent of $10.1 billion, TSMC said, while revenue rose 39% to $23.6 billion.Aside from AI, growth in the semiconductor industry is slower because demand for consumer products such as smartphones has flattened and many manufacturers are working down stockpiles of chips they built up during the pandemic. Equipment supplier ASML warned this week that the recovery in some parts of the industry may stretch into next year, causing ASML shares to fall more than 20% over two days and hitting other chip stocks as well. TSMC executives said they expected demand to solidify for other types of chips, such as those used in smartphones and personal computers, as AI technologies are integrated into those devices.First off,last quarterI wished that TSMC would separate out AI revenue from general high-performance computing (HPC) revenue, so it would be easier to see to what extent AI-fueled GPU growth was coming at the expense of traditional CPU sales; I was pleased to see my wish granted! CEO C.C. Wei saidon the earnings call:Moving into first quarter, we expect our business to continue to be supported by strong demand for our leading edge process technologies. We continue to observe extremely robust AI related demand from our customers throughout the second half of 2024, leading to increasing overall capacity utilization rate for our leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer process technologies.At TSMC, we define server AI processors as GPUs, AI accelerators, and CPUs performing training and influence functions, and do not include networking, edge, or on-device AI. We now forecast the revenue contribution from server AI processors to more than triple this year, and account for mid-teens percentage of our total revenue in 2024. Supported by our technology leadership and broad customer base, we are well-positioned to capture the industry’s growth opportunities. We now forecast our full year revenue to increase by close to 30% in US dollar terms.To do some quick back-of-the-envelope math:TSMC’s HPC revenue in the first nine months of 2024 totaled $22 billion, a $4.4 billion increase over the first nine months of 2023.If we assume that a “mid-teens percentage of our total revenue” is 15%, AI chips have accounted for $9.5 billion in revenue year-to-dateIf that is a 300% increase, that means that AI has accounted for $6.3 billion in HPC growth, which means the rest of HPC has actually shrunk by $1.9 billion year-to-date.These are very fuzzy numbers, to be clear, but enough to confirm the suspicion that AI chip spending is definitely displacing a good amount of traditional CPU spend.Margins and ArizonaMeanwhile, this quarter from TSMC was a powerful example of foundry economics: TSMC’s higher-than-expected revenue was a function of selling a lot of leading edge chips; selling lots of leading edge chips meant their very-expensive fabs were running at full capacity. That leads to this, from CFO Wendell Huang on the earnings call:Third quarter revenue increased 12.8% sequentially in NT, as our business was supported by strong smartphone and AI related demand for our industry leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer technologies. Gross margin increased by 4.6% points sequentially to 57.8%, mainly reflecting a higher capacity utilization rate and cost improvement efforts. Due to operating leverage, total operating expenses accounted for 10.4% of net revenue.That’s a huge jump in margin, not from raising prices, and only a bit from cutting costs; rather, because most of the cost of goods for a foundry is depreciation, which is fixed, more volume means higher margins (and, on the flip side, decreased volume destroys margins).What is enticing about TSMC’s business is that things could get even better. First,as I noted last quarter, TSMC is almost certainly raising prices on the upcoming N2 and A16 processes. That will obviously help margins. Secondly, TSMC is signaling that demand for those generations is massive. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to a question about the shift to chiplets potentially depressing demand for leading edge processes:The chiplets have become especially our HPC customers’ strategy. Is it going to reduce the capacity for 2 nanometer because they become chiplets? The answer is no. Actually we have many, many customers interested in the 2 nanometer. And today with their activities with TSMC, we actually see more demand than we ever dream about as compared with N3. So we have to prepare more capacity in N2 than in N3. And following by A16, again, A16 is a very, very attractive for the AI server chips. And so actually the demand is also very high and so we are working very hard to prepare both 2 nanometer and A16 capacity.There is a third reason for optimism, which I will get to below, but meanwhile there are two potential countervailing factors. The first is obviously a collapse in demand; Wei, though, was adamant that he didn’t think this would happen, in part because of TSMC’s own experience:Let me answer your question. Simply, whether this AI demand is real or not. Okay. And my judgment is real. We have talked to our customers all the time, including our hyperscaler customers who are building their own chips. And almost every AI innovators is working with TSMC. And so we probably get the deepest and widest look than anyone in this industry.And why I say it’s real? Because we have our real experience. We have used the AI and machine learning in our fab, in R&D operations. By using AI, we are able to create more value by driving greater productivity, efficiency, speed, qualities. And think about it, let me use 1% productivity gain. That was almost equal to about $1 billion to TSMC. And this is a tangible ROI benefit. And I believe we cannot be the only one company that have benefited from this AI application. So I believe a lot of companies right now are using AI and for their own improving productivity, efficiency, and everything. So I think it’s real.The fervency of this belief won’t matter, of course, if AI demand does collapse; however, it’s still important for what it says for Intel’s prospects. Intel’s biggest opportunity is that demand simply overwhelms TSMC, and/or that TSMC approaches the AI opportunity conservatively. That would be a reasonable thing to do, given the foundry economics I talked about above!Wei certainly made it sound, though, that TSMC is full steam ahead; the company is slightly upping its capital expenditures for this year, which is notable given that it is already October, and certainly seems to be signaling that next year’s number will take a sizable leap. To that end, to the extent the company is able to meet increased demand is the extent that Intel’s opportunity is diminished; and, to the extent demand is over-estimated, is the extent that Intel is likely to be the biggest shock absorber of the pain.The second potential countervailing factor — beyondrising electricity rates in Taiwan— is the cost of TSMC’s overseas fabs. Huang said:The overseas fabs have basically a lower profitability than the fabs in Taiwan, mainly because of a smaller scale and of next year will be initial ramp and higher cost. So it will have a lower profitability, but it will gradually improve over the years. Now, don’t forget in Arizona and in Kumamoto, we are ramping more than one fabs. So when fab one begin to improve its profitability, the second phase comes in. And Arizona, when fab two improves, the third fab comes in. A similar situation in Kumamoto. And that’s the reason why we’re saying that in the next three or five years, we expect 2 to 3 percentage point dilution every year.This isn’t that big of a deal, given that TSMC has previously signaled that they will charge more for these chips, given that geographic location is part of the value they are providing customers. One thing that did occur to me, though, is an under-appreciated reason why the Arizona fabs in particular are doable is because of how TSMC has been adopting the Intel model. I explained in an Updatelast January:TSMC started out as a foundry selling trailing edge chips; the primary way of making money over the long run was to build a fab relatively cheaply using established equipment, and then run that fab for many years. Once all of the equipment was depreciated, every chip produced was almost pure profit, even if the revenue on a per-chip basis was fairly low.It was Intel, on the other hand, that charged the highest prices for the fastest chips, and all of its business was on the leading edge, selling its own chips; that meant that the company would take down old fabs and repurpose as much equipment as it could for the next node, instead of running the fab forever like a foundry would (this is one of Intel’s challenges in becoming a foundry: they simply don’t have much depreciated trailing edge capacity throwing off cash).What is interesting to note is that TSMC’s shift to a more Intel-like model in terms of its revenue drivers (leading edge) and profit drivers (high prices) is starting to impact how they manage their fabs. CFO Wendell Huang said inhis prepared remarks:In addition, we have a strategy so that some of our N3 capacity can be supported by N5 tools given the strong multiyear demand. Such a plan will enable higher capital efficiency in the mid to long term, but requires cost and effort in the near term. Most of this conversion will occur in second half of 2024, and we expect it to dilute our gross margin by about 1 to 2 percentage points in second half of 2024.Huang expanded on the plan in response to a question about the margin impact of this conversion:And N5 converted to N3, it’s a onetime short-term impact on profitability, which will bring capital efficiency to us in the middle to long term. And the benefits together will be much bigger than the onetime hit in the short term. So if you’re talking about the longer-term profitability, including these 2 factors, plus we’re selling our value, our technology value, as C. C. mentioned, we continue to drive down the cost.Notice what is happening here: TSMC, unlike its historical pattern, is not keeping (all of its) 5nm capacity to make low-cost high-margin chips in fully-depreciated fabs; rather, it is going to repurpose some amount of equipment — probably as much as it can manage — to 3nm, which will allow it to expand its capacity without a commensurate increase in capital costs. This will both increase the profitability of 3nm and also recognizes the reality that is afflicting TSMC’s 7nm node: there is an increasingly large gap between the leading edge and “good enough” nodes for the vast majority of use cases.This Intel-like approach to fabs should make a big difference for Arizona in particular: it’s a lot easier to absorb higher costs if the focus is on selling leading edge chips. Arizona isn’t fully on the leading edge — the fab that is ramping now is 4nm (i.e. the most advanced 5nm process) — but keeping that site close to the leading edge makes the economics much more manageable than they were the first time TSMC tried building in America 25 years ago. And, to that end, I would expect that the skills TSMC is gaining in converting fabs to the next node will be useful in keeping Arizona’s margins high in the years to come.ASML and Peak LithographyFromBloomberg:ASML Holding NV’s shares plunged the most in 26 years after it booked only about half the orders analysts expected, a startling slowdown for one of the bellwethers of the semiconductor industry. The Dutch company, which makes the world’s most advanced chipmaking machines, lowered its guidance for 2025 and reported bookings of €2.6 billion ($2.8 billion) in the third quarter, missing an average estimate of €5.39 billion by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.ASML’s earnings were released a day early on accident, and led to a widespread plunge in all semiconductor-related stocks;its earnings calla day later, though, made the same point I highlighted above with TSMC’s revenue: AI is doing great at the expense of everything else. CEO Christophe Fouquet said:With regards to market condition, while we continue to view AI as a key driver of the industry recovery with potential upside, we see other segments recovering more slowly than anticipated. The recovery will extend well into 2025, which is leading to customer cautiousness and some push outs in their investment. In logic, the slow recovery of end markets such as mobile and PC, together with specific competitive foundry dynamics, has resulted in a slower ramp of new nodes at certain customers who are as a results pushing out some of their fabs and changing their litho demand timing.Those two customers are clearly Intel, which is skipping the entire 20A node, and Samsung,which is delaying its planned Texas fabdue to a lack of customers. Neither company has any significant exposure to AI, and, thanks to the margin dynamics I noted above, have to be very judicious in just how much capital expenditure they outlay without having secured demand.That leaves TSMC and its upcoming investment at 2nm and 16A, which is a challenge for ASML for three reasons. First, there is the aforementioned shift in TSMC’s model; repurposing equipment likely means fewer lithography orders. Second, while ASML may have a monopoly on advanced lithography, TSMC is poised to have monopsony power in terms of being able to actually make money on processes that utilize ASML’s advanced lithography, which may depress prices (this is the third factor that could help TSMC’s margins).The third challenge is that we are past peak lithography, an idea put forth by Doug O’Laughlin atFabricated Knowledge:Another way to interrupt this statement is that EUV intensity is peaked if they think the DUV attach rate is growing as fast as EUV. This has been a long time coming, and Applied Materials puts it well in this slide – 3nm is the apex of lithography market share gains. This is not good for ASML and the EUV story.And how are we that surprised? Most innovations have been explicitly focused on reducing the EUV layer count. I’ve said this repeatedly, butyou can argue that Sculpta, reduction of EUV layers at TSMC, and evenBSPDNare about removing EUV layers. When the entire industry plans to use less EUV, lithography is peaking.The last decade has been the decade of Lithography, and I can almost assure you that Lithography spending will grow slower in the next decade than WFE [Wafer Fab Equipment]. And let’s not forget that in the decade before EUV, lithography was only 15-20% of the expenditure. I believe that lithography will revert to the mid-20s of WFE.I think it’s time for investors to accept the decade of lithography is over. The premium ASML has slowly gained for itself for the last decade should end as the decade of litho ends. And the recent price move has been a collapse of that premium. I believe it should trade in line with other semi-cap companies, as I’m sure that Litho will not outgrow WFE but will be valued for its strong monopoly.There are other factors affecting ASML, including export restrictions to China, but this point is a compelling one. ASML has been in the enviable position of not just riding the semiconductor wave, but massively increasing its revenue share of that wave thanks to the shift to EUV. Yes, more expensive EUV systems are coming, but the idea that the company’s growth will be increasingly pegged to overall semiconductor growth — which may be mostly one company — and should thus have a multiple in-line with other semiconductor equipment companies makes sense (and is still a very good business!).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedChips and ChinaDateTuesday, October 25, 2022Political ChipsDateWednesday, August 3, 2022Intel’s HumblingDateTuesday, January 30, 2024←An Interview with Hugo Barra About Orion and Meta’s AR StrategyStripe Acquires Bridge, Stablecoins, Platform of Platforms→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air TSMC Earnings, Margins and Arizona, ASML and Peak LithographyMonday, October 21, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast Thursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussedElon Dreams and Bitter Lessons.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:The world’s largest contract chip maker reassured investors that the artificial-intelligence boom is real after reporting a record quarterly profit. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Chief Executive C.C. Wei said Thursday that revenue from AI-related servers and processors was expected to triple this year and would account for about 15% of TSMC’s total revenue…Companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in AI-related chips and infrastructure in the expectation that the technology will transform industry and daily life, but some investors have expressed doubts about whether the frenzy is sustainable. Wei said TSMC was working with most of the leading AI companies and believed the boom would continue for many years.Net profit in the July-September quarter rose 54% to the equivalent of $10.1 billion, TSMC said, while revenue rose 39% to $23.6 billion.Aside from AI, growth in the semiconductor industry is slower because demand for consumer products such as smartphones has flattened and many manufacturers are working down stockpiles of chips they built up during the pandemic. Equipment supplier ASML warned this week that the recovery in some parts of the industry may stretch into next year, causing ASML shares to fall more than 20% over two days and hitting other chip stocks as well. TSMC executives said they expected demand to solidify for other types of chips, such as those used in smartphones and personal computers, as AI technologies are integrated into those devices.First off,last quarterI wished that TSMC would separate out AI revenue from general high-performance computing (HPC) revenue, so it would be easier to see to what extent AI-fueled GPU growth was coming at the expense of traditional CPU sales; I was pleased to see my wish granted! CEO C.C. Wei saidon the earnings call:Moving into first quarter, we expect our business to continue to be supported by strong demand for our leading edge process technologies. We continue to observe extremely robust AI related demand from our customers throughout the second half of 2024, leading to increasing overall capacity utilization rate for our leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer process technologies.At TSMC, we define server AI processors as GPUs, AI accelerators, and CPUs performing training and influence functions, and do not include networking, edge, or on-device AI. We now forecast the revenue contribution from server AI processors to more than triple this year, and account for mid-teens percentage of our total revenue in 2024. Supported by our technology leadership and broad customer base, we are well-positioned to capture the industry’s growth opportunities. We now forecast our full year revenue to increase by close to 30% in US dollar terms.To do some quick back-of-the-envelope math:TSMC’s HPC revenue in the first nine months of 2024 totaled $22 billion, a $4.4 billion increase over the first nine months of 2023.If we assume that a “mid-teens percentage of our total revenue” is 15%, AI chips have accounted for $9.5 billion in revenue year-to-dateIf that is a 300% increase, that means that AI has accounted for $6.3 billion in HPC growth, which means the rest of HPC has actually shrunk by $1.9 billion year-to-date.These are very fuzzy numbers, to be clear, but enough to confirm the suspicion that AI chip spending is definitely displacing a good amount of traditional CPU spend.Margins and ArizonaMeanwhile, this quarter from TSMC was a powerful example of foundry economics: TSMC’s higher-than-expected revenue was a function of selling a lot of leading edge chips; selling lots of leading edge chips meant their very-expensive fabs were running at full capacity. That leads to this, from CFO Wendell Huang on the earnings call:Third quarter revenue increased 12.8% sequentially in NT, as our business was supported by strong smartphone and AI related demand for our industry leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer technologies. Gross margin increased by 4.6% points sequentially to 57.8%, mainly reflecting a higher capacity utilization rate and cost improvement efforts. Due to operating leverage, total operating expenses accounted for 10.4% of net revenue.That’s a huge jump in margin, not from raising prices, and only a bit from cutting costs; rather, because most of the cost of goods for a foundry is depreciation, which is fixed, more volume means higher margins (and, on the flip side, decreased volume destroys margins).What is enticing about TSMC’s business is that things could get even better. First,as I noted last quarter, TSMC is almost certainly raising prices on the upcoming N2 and A16 processes. That will obviously help margins. Secondly, TSMC is signaling that demand for those generations is massive. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to a question about the shift to chiplets potentially depressing demand for leading edge processes:The chiplets have become especially our HPC customers’ strategy. Is it going to reduce the capacity for 2 nanometer because they become chiplets? The answer is no. Actually we have many, many customers interested in the 2 nanometer. And today with their activities with TSMC, we actually see more demand than we ever dream about as compared with N3. So we have to prepare more capacity in N2 than in N3. And following by A16, again, A16 is a very, very attractive for the AI server chips. And so actually the demand is also very high and so we are working very hard to prepare both 2 nanometer and A16 capacity.There is a third reason for optimism, which I will get to below, but meanwhile there are two potential countervailing factors. The first is obviously a collapse in demand; Wei, though, was adamant that he didn’t think this would happen, in part because of TSMC’s own experience:Let me answer your question. Simply, whether this AI demand is real or not. Okay. And my judgment is real. We have talked to our customers all the time, including our hyperscaler customers who are building their own chips. And almost every AI innovators is working with TSMC. And so we probably get the deepest and widest look than anyone in this industry.And why I say it’s real? Because we have our real experience. We have used the AI and machine learning in our fab, in R&D operations. By using AI, we are able to create more value by driving greater productivity, efficiency, speed, qualities. And think about it, let me use 1% productivity gain. That was almost equal to about $1 billion to TSMC. And this is a tangible ROI benefit. And I believe we cannot be the only one company that have benefited from this AI application. So I believe a lot of companies right now are using AI and for their own improving productivity, efficiency, and everything. So I think it’s real.The fervency of this belief won’t matter, of course, if AI demand does collapse; however, it’s still important for what it says for Intel’s prospects. Intel’s biggest opportunity is that demand simply overwhelms TSMC, and/or that TSMC approaches the AI opportunity conservatively. That would be a reasonable thing to do, given the foundry economics I talked about above!Wei certainly made it sound, though, that TSMC is full steam ahead; the company is slightly upping its capital expenditures for this year, which is notable given that it is already October, and certainly seems to be signaling that next year’s number will take a sizable leap. To that end, to the extent the company is able to meet increased demand is the extent that Intel’s opportunity is diminished; and, to the extent demand is over-estimated, is the extent that Intel is likely to be the biggest shock absorber of the pain.The second potential countervailing factor — beyondrising electricity rates in Taiwan— is the cost of TSMC’s overseas fabs. Huang said:The overseas fabs have basically a lower profitability than the fabs in Taiwan, mainly because of a smaller scale and of next year will be initial ramp and higher cost. So it will have a lower profitability, but it will gradually improve over the years. Now, don’t forget in Arizona and in Kumamoto, we are ramping more than one fabs. So when fab one begin to improve its profitability, the second phase comes in. And Arizona, when fab two improves, the third fab comes in. A similar situation in Kumamoto. And that’s the reason why we’re saying that in the next three or five years, we expect 2 to 3 percentage point dilution every year.This isn’t that big of a deal, given that TSMC has previously signaled that they will charge more for these chips, given that geographic location is part of the value they are providing customers. One thing that did occur to me, though, is an under-appreciated reason why the Arizona fabs in particular are doable is because of how TSMC has been adopting the Intel model. I explained in an Updatelast January:TSMC started out as a foundry selling trailing edge chips; the primary way of making money over the long run was to build a fab relatively cheaply using established equipment, and then run that fab for many years. Once all of the equipment was depreciated, every chip produced was almost pure profit, even if the revenue on a per-chip basis was fairly low.It was Intel, on the other hand, that charged the highest prices for the fastest chips, and all of its business was on the leading edge, selling its own chips; that meant that the company would take down old fabs and repurpose as much equipment as it could for the next node, instead of running the fab forever like a foundry would (this is one of Intel’s challenges in becoming a foundry: they simply don’t have much depreciated trailing edge capacity throwing off cash).What is interesting to note is that TSMC’s shift to a more Intel-like model in terms of its revenue drivers (leading edge) and profit drivers (high prices) is starting to impact how they manage their fabs. CFO Wendell Huang said inhis prepared remarks:In addition, we have a strategy so that some of our N3 capacity can be supported by N5 tools given the strong multiyear demand. Such a plan will enable higher capital efficiency in the mid to long term, but requires cost and effort in the near term. Most of this conversion will occur in second half of 2024, and we expect it to dilute our gross margin by about 1 to 2 percentage points in second half of 2024.Huang expanded on the plan in response to a question about the margin impact of this conversion:And N5 converted to N3, it’s a onetime short-term impact on profitability, which will bring capital efficiency to us in the middle to long term. And the benefits together will be much bigger than the onetime hit in the short term. So if you’re talking about the longer-term profitability, including these 2 factors, plus we’re selling our value, our technology value, as C. C. mentioned, we continue to drive down the cost.Notice what is happening here: TSMC, unlike its historical pattern, is not keeping (all of its) 5nm capacity to make low-cost high-margin chips in fully-depreciated fabs; rather, it is going to repurpose some amount of equipment — probably as much as it can manage — to 3nm, which will allow it to expand its capacity without a commensurate increase in capital costs. This will both increase the profitability of 3nm and also recognizes the reality that is afflicting TSMC’s 7nm node: there is an increasingly large gap between the leading edge and “good enough” nodes for the vast majority of use cases.This Intel-like approach to fabs should make a big difference for Arizona in particular: it’s a lot easier to absorb higher costs if the focus is on selling leading edge chips. Arizona isn’t fully on the leading edge — the fab that is ramping now is 4nm (i.e. the most advanced 5nm process) — but keeping that site close to the leading edge makes the economics much more manageable than they were the first time TSMC tried building in America 25 years ago. And, to that end, I would expect that the skills TSMC is gaining in converting fabs to the next node will be useful in keeping Arizona’s margins high in the years to come.ASML and Peak LithographyFromBloomberg:ASML Holding NV’s shares plunged the most in 26 years after it booked only about half the orders analysts expected, a startling slowdown for one of the bellwethers of the semiconductor industry. The Dutch company, which makes the world’s most advanced chipmaking machines, lowered its guidance for 2025 and reported bookings of €2.6 billion ($2.8 billion) in the third quarter, missing an average estimate of €5.39 billion by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.ASML’s earnings were released a day early on accident, and led to a widespread plunge in all semiconductor-related stocks;its earnings calla day later, though, made the same point I highlighted above with TSMC’s revenue: AI is doing great at the expense of everything else. CEO Christophe Fouquet said:With regards to market condition, while we continue to view AI as a key driver of the industry recovery with potential upside, we see other segments recovering more slowly than anticipated. The recovery will extend well into 2025, which is leading to customer cautiousness and some push outs in their investment. In logic, the slow recovery of end markets such as mobile and PC, together with specific competitive foundry dynamics, has resulted in a slower ramp of new nodes at certain customers who are as a results pushing out some of their fabs and changing their litho demand timing.Those two customers are clearly Intel, which is skipping the entire 20A node, and Samsung,which is delaying its planned Texas fabdue to a lack of customers. Neither company has any significant exposure to AI, and, thanks to the margin dynamics I noted above, have to be very judicious in just how much capital expenditure they outlay without having secured demand.That leaves TSMC and its upcoming investment at 2nm and 16A, which is a challenge for ASML for three reasons. First, there is the aforementioned shift in TSMC’s model; repurposing equipment likely means fewer lithography orders. Second, while ASML may have a monopoly on advanced lithography, TSMC is poised to have monopsony power in terms of being able to actually make money on processes that utilize ASML’s advanced lithography, which may depress prices (this is the third factor that could help TSMC’s margins).The third challenge is that we are past peak lithography, an idea put forth by Doug O’Laughlin atFabricated Knowledge:Another way to interrupt this statement is that EUV intensity is peaked if they think the DUV attach rate is growing as fast as EUV. This has been a long time coming, and Applied Materials puts it well in this slide – 3nm is the apex of lithography market share gains. This is not good for ASML and the EUV story.And how are we that surprised? Most innovations have been explicitly focused on reducing the EUV layer count. I’ve said this repeatedly, butyou can argue that Sculpta, reduction of EUV layers at TSMC, and evenBSPDNare about removing EUV layers. When the entire industry plans to use less EUV, lithography is peaking.The last decade has been the decade of Lithography, and I can almost assure you that Lithography spending will grow slower in the next decade than WFE [Wafer Fab Equipment]. And let’s not forget that in the decade before EUV, lithography was only 15-20% of the expenditure. I believe that lithography will revert to the mid-20s of WFE.I think it’s time for investors to accept the decade of lithography is over. The premium ASML has slowly gained for itself for the last decade should end as the decade of litho ends. And the recent price move has been a collapse of that premium. I believe it should trade in line with other semi-cap companies, as I’m sure that Litho will not outgrow WFE but will be valued for its strong monopoly.There are other factors affecting ASML, including export restrictions to China, but this point is a compelling one. ASML has been in the enviable position of not just riding the semiconductor wave, but massively increasing its revenue share of that wave thanks to the shift to EUV. Yes, more expensive EUV systems are coming, but the idea that the company’s growth will be increasingly pegged to overall semiconductor growth — which may be mostly one company — and should thus have a multiple in-line with other semiconductor equipment companies makes sense (and is still a very good business!).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedChips and ChinaDateTuesday, October 25, 2022Political ChipsDateWednesday, August 3, 2022Intel’s HumblingDateTuesday, January 30, 2024←An Interview with Hugo Barra About Orion and Meta’s AR StrategyStripe Acquires Bridge, Stablecoins, Platform of Platforms→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All TSMC Earnings, Margins and Arizona, ASML and Peak LithographyMonday, October 21, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast Thursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussedElon Dreams and Bitter Lessons.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:The world’s largest contract chip maker reassured investors that the artificial-intelligence boom is real after reporting a record quarterly profit. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Chief Executive C.C. Wei said Thursday that revenue from AI-related servers and processors was expected to triple this year and would account for about 15% of TSMC’s total revenue…Companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in AI-related chips and infrastructure in the expectation that the technology will transform industry and daily life, but some investors have expressed doubts about whether the frenzy is sustainable. Wei said TSMC was working with most of the leading AI companies and believed the boom would continue for many years.Net profit in the July-September quarter rose 54% to the equivalent of $10.1 billion, TSMC said, while revenue rose 39% to $23.6 billion.Aside from AI, growth in the semiconductor industry is slower because demand for consumer products such as smartphones has flattened and many manufacturers are working down stockpiles of chips they built up during the pandemic. Equipment supplier ASML warned this week that the recovery in some parts of the industry may stretch into next year, causing ASML shares to fall more than 20% over two days and hitting other chip stocks as well. TSMC executives said they expected demand to solidify for other types of chips, such as those used in smartphones and personal computers, as AI technologies are integrated into those devices.First off,last quarterI wished that TSMC would separate out AI revenue from general high-performance computing (HPC) revenue, so it would be easier to see to what extent AI-fueled GPU growth was coming at the expense of traditional CPU sales; I was pleased to see my wish granted! CEO C.C. Wei saidon the earnings call:Moving into first quarter, we expect our business to continue to be supported by strong demand for our leading edge process technologies. We continue to observe extremely robust AI related demand from our customers throughout the second half of 2024, leading to increasing overall capacity utilization rate for our leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer process technologies.At TSMC, we define server AI processors as GPUs, AI accelerators, and CPUs performing training and influence functions, and do not include networking, edge, or on-device AI. We now forecast the revenue contribution from server AI processors to more than triple this year, and account for mid-teens percentage of our total revenue in 2024. Supported by our technology leadership and broad customer base, we are well-positioned to capture the industry’s growth opportunities. We now forecast our full year revenue to increase by close to 30% in US dollar terms.To do some quick back-of-the-envelope math:TSMC’s HPC revenue in the first nine months of 2024 totaled $22 billion, a $4.4 billion increase over the first nine months of 2023.If we assume that a “mid-teens percentage of our total revenue” is 15%, AI chips have accounted for $9.5 billion in revenue year-to-dateIf that is a 300% increase, that means that AI has accounted for $6.3 billion in HPC growth, which means the rest of HPC has actually shrunk by $1.9 billion year-to-date.These are very fuzzy numbers, to be clear, but enough to confirm the suspicion that AI chip spending is definitely displacing a good amount of traditional CPU spend.Margins and ArizonaMeanwhile, this quarter from TSMC was a powerful example of foundry economics: TSMC’s higher-than-expected revenue was a function of selling a lot of leading edge chips; selling lots of leading edge chips meant their very-expensive fabs were running at full capacity. That leads to this, from CFO Wendell Huang on the earnings call:Third quarter revenue increased 12.8% sequentially in NT, as our business was supported by strong smartphone and AI related demand for our industry leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer technologies. Gross margin increased by 4.6% points sequentially to 57.8%, mainly reflecting a higher capacity utilization rate and cost improvement efforts. Due to operating leverage, total operating expenses accounted for 10.4% of net revenue.That’s a huge jump in margin, not from raising prices, and only a bit from cutting costs; rather, because most of the cost of goods for a foundry is depreciation, which is fixed, more volume means higher margins (and, on the flip side, decreased volume destroys margins).What is enticing about TSMC’s business is that things could get even better. First,as I noted last quarter, TSMC is almost certainly raising prices on the upcoming N2 and A16 processes. That will obviously help margins. Secondly, TSMC is signaling that demand for those generations is massive. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to a question about the shift to chiplets potentially depressing demand for leading edge processes:The chiplets have become especially our HPC customers’ strategy. Is it going to reduce the capacity for 2 nanometer because they become chiplets? The answer is no. Actually we have many, many customers interested in the 2 nanometer. And today with their activities with TSMC, we actually see more demand than we ever dream about as compared with N3. So we have to prepare more capacity in N2 than in N3. And following by A16, again, A16 is a very, very attractive for the AI server chips. And so actually the demand is also very high and so we are working very hard to prepare both 2 nanometer and A16 capacity.There is a third reason for optimism, which I will get to below, but meanwhile there are two potential countervailing factors. The first is obviously a collapse in demand; Wei, though, was adamant that he didn’t think this would happen, in part because of TSMC’s own experience:Let me answer your question. Simply, whether this AI demand is real or not. Okay. And my judgment is real. We have talked to our customers all the time, including our hyperscaler customers who are building their own chips. And almost every AI innovators is working with TSMC. And so we probably get the deepest and widest look than anyone in this industry.And why I say it’s real? Because we have our real experience. We have used the AI and machine learning in our fab, in R&D operations. By using AI, we are able to create more value by driving greater productivity, efficiency, speed, qualities. And think about it, let me use 1% productivity gain. That was almost equal to about $1 billion to TSMC. And this is a tangible ROI benefit. And I believe we cannot be the only one company that have benefited from this AI application. So I believe a lot of companies right now are using AI and for their own improving productivity, efficiency, and everything. So I think it’s real.The fervency of this belief won’t matter, of course, if AI demand does collapse; however, it’s still important for what it says for Intel’s prospects. Intel’s biggest opportunity is that demand simply overwhelms TSMC, and/or that TSMC approaches the AI opportunity conservatively. That would be a reasonable thing to do, given the foundry economics I talked about above!Wei certainly made it sound, though, that TSMC is full steam ahead; the company is slightly upping its capital expenditures for this year, which is notable given that it is already October, and certainly seems to be signaling that next year’s number will take a sizable leap. To that end, to the extent the company is able to meet increased demand is the extent that Intel’s opportunity is diminished; and, to the extent demand is over-estimated, is the extent that Intel is likely to be the biggest shock absorber of the pain.The second potential countervailing factor — beyondrising electricity rates in Taiwan— is the cost of TSMC’s overseas fabs. Huang said:The overseas fabs have basically a lower profitability than the fabs in Taiwan, mainly because of a smaller scale and of next year will be initial ramp and higher cost. So it will have a lower profitability, but it will gradually improve over the years. Now, don’t forget in Arizona and in Kumamoto, we are ramping more than one fabs. So when fab one begin to improve its profitability, the second phase comes in. And Arizona, when fab two improves, the third fab comes in. A similar situation in Kumamoto. And that’s the reason why we’re saying that in the next three or five years, we expect 2 to 3 percentage point dilution every year.This isn’t that big of a deal, given that TSMC has previously signaled that they will charge more for these chips, given that geographic location is part of the value they are providing customers. One thing that did occur to me, though, is an under-appreciated reason why the Arizona fabs in particular are doable is because of how TSMC has been adopting the Intel model. I explained in an Updatelast January:TSMC started out as a foundry selling trailing edge chips; the primary way of making money over the long run was to build a fab relatively cheaply using established equipment, and then run that fab for many years. Once all of the equipment was depreciated, every chip produced was almost pure profit, even if the revenue on a per-chip basis was fairly low.It was Intel, on the other hand, that charged the highest prices for the fastest chips, and all of its business was on the leading edge, selling its own chips; that meant that the company would take down old fabs and repurpose as much equipment as it could for the next node, instead of running the fab forever like a foundry would (this is one of Intel’s challenges in becoming a foundry: they simply don’t have much depreciated trailing edge capacity throwing off cash).What is interesting to note is that TSMC’s shift to a more Intel-like model in terms of its revenue drivers (leading edge) and profit drivers (high prices) is starting to impact how they manage their fabs. CFO Wendell Huang said inhis prepared remarks:In addition, we have a strategy so that some of our N3 capacity can be supported by N5 tools given the strong multiyear demand. Such a plan will enable higher capital efficiency in the mid to long term, but requires cost and effort in the near term. Most of this conversion will occur in second half of 2024, and we expect it to dilute our gross margin by about 1 to 2 percentage points in second half of 2024.Huang expanded on the plan in response to a question about the margin impact of this conversion:And N5 converted to N3, it’s a onetime short-term impact on profitability, which will bring capital efficiency to us in the middle to long term. And the benefits together will be much bigger than the onetime hit in the short term. So if you’re talking about the longer-term profitability, including these 2 factors, plus we’re selling our value, our technology value, as C. C. mentioned, we continue to drive down the cost.Notice what is happening here: TSMC, unlike its historical pattern, is not keeping (all of its) 5nm capacity to make low-cost high-margin chips in fully-depreciated fabs; rather, it is going to repurpose some amount of equipment — probably as much as it can manage — to 3nm, which will allow it to expand its capacity without a commensurate increase in capital costs. This will both increase the profitability of 3nm and also recognizes the reality that is afflicting TSMC’s 7nm node: there is an increasingly large gap between the leading edge and “good enough” nodes for the vast majority of use cases.This Intel-like approach to fabs should make a big difference for Arizona in particular: it’s a lot easier to absorb higher costs if the focus is on selling leading edge chips. Arizona isn’t fully on the leading edge — the fab that is ramping now is 4nm (i.e. the most advanced 5nm process) — but keeping that site close to the leading edge makes the economics much more manageable than they were the first time TSMC tried building in America 25 years ago. And, to that end, I would expect that the skills TSMC is gaining in converting fabs to the next node will be useful in keeping Arizona’s margins high in the years to come.ASML and Peak LithographyFromBloomberg:ASML Holding NV’s shares plunged the most in 26 years after it booked only about half the orders analysts expected, a startling slowdown for one of the bellwethers of the semiconductor industry. The Dutch company, which makes the world’s most advanced chipmaking machines, lowered its guidance for 2025 and reported bookings of €2.6 billion ($2.8 billion) in the third quarter, missing an average estimate of €5.39 billion by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.ASML’s earnings were released a day early on accident, and led to a widespread plunge in all semiconductor-related stocks;its earnings calla day later, though, made the same point I highlighted above with TSMC’s revenue: AI is doing great at the expense of everything else. CEO Christophe Fouquet said:With regards to market condition, while we continue to view AI as a key driver of the industry recovery with potential upside, we see other segments recovering more slowly than anticipated. The recovery will extend well into 2025, which is leading to customer cautiousness and some push outs in their investment. In logic, the slow recovery of end markets such as mobile and PC, together with specific competitive foundry dynamics, has resulted in a slower ramp of new nodes at certain customers who are as a results pushing out some of their fabs and changing their litho demand timing.Those two customers are clearly Intel, which is skipping the entire 20A node, and Samsung,which is delaying its planned Texas fabdue to a lack of customers. Neither company has any significant exposure to AI, and, thanks to the margin dynamics I noted above, have to be very judicious in just how much capital expenditure they outlay without having secured demand.That leaves TSMC and its upcoming investment at 2nm and 16A, which is a challenge for ASML for three reasons. First, there is the aforementioned shift in TSMC’s model; repurposing equipment likely means fewer lithography orders. Second, while ASML may have a monopoly on advanced lithography, TSMC is poised to have monopsony power in terms of being able to actually make money on processes that utilize ASML’s advanced lithography, which may depress prices (this is the third factor that could help TSMC’s margins).The third challenge is that we are past peak lithography, an idea put forth by Doug O’Laughlin atFabricated Knowledge:Another way to interrupt this statement is that EUV intensity is peaked if they think the DUV attach rate is growing as fast as EUV. This has been a long time coming, and Applied Materials puts it well in this slide – 3nm is the apex of lithography market share gains. This is not good for ASML and the EUV story.And how are we that surprised? Most innovations have been explicitly focused on reducing the EUV layer count. I’ve said this repeatedly, butyou can argue that Sculpta, reduction of EUV layers at TSMC, and evenBSPDNare about removing EUV layers. When the entire industry plans to use less EUV, lithography is peaking.The last decade has been the decade of Lithography, and I can almost assure you that Lithography spending will grow slower in the next decade than WFE [Wafer Fab Equipment]. And let’s not forget that in the decade before EUV, lithography was only 15-20% of the expenditure. I believe that lithography will revert to the mid-20s of WFE.I think it’s time for investors to accept the decade of lithography is over. The premium ASML has slowly gained for itself for the last decade should end as the decade of litho ends. And the recent price move has been a collapse of that premium. I believe it should trade in line with other semi-cap companies, as I’m sure that Litho will not outgrow WFE but will be valued for its strong monopoly.There are other factors affecting ASML, including export restrictions to China, but this point is a compelling one. ASML has been in the enviable position of not just riding the semiconductor wave, but massively increasing its revenue share of that wave thanks to the shift to EUV. Yes, more expensive EUV systems are coming, but the idea that the company’s growth will be increasingly pegged to overall semiconductor growth — which may be mostly one company — and should thus have a multiple in-line with other semiconductor equipment companies makes sense (and is still a very good business!).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedChips and ChinaDateTuesday, October 25, 2022Political ChipsDateWednesday, August 3, 2022Intel’s HumblingDateTuesday, January 30, 2024←An Interview with Hugo Barra About Orion and Meta’s AR StrategyStripe Acquires Bridge, Stablecoins, Platform of Platforms→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast Thursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussedElon Dreams and Bitter Lessons.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:The world’s largest contract chip maker reassured investors that the artificial-intelligence boom is real after reporting a record quarterly profit. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Chief Executive C.C. Wei said Thursday that revenue from AI-related servers and processors was expected to triple this year and would account for about 15% of TSMC’s total revenue…Companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in AI-related chips and infrastructure in the expectation that the technology will transform industry and daily life, but some investors have expressed doubts about whether the frenzy is sustainable. Wei said TSMC was working with most of the leading AI companies and believed the boom would continue for many years.Net profit in the July-September quarter rose 54% to the equivalent of $10.1 billion, TSMC said, while revenue rose 39% to $23.6 billion.Aside from AI, growth in the semiconductor industry is slower because demand for consumer products such as smartphones has flattened and many manufacturers are working down stockpiles of chips they built up during the pandemic. Equipment supplier ASML warned this week that the recovery in some parts of the industry may stretch into next year, causing ASML shares to fall more than 20% over two days and hitting other chip stocks as well. TSMC executives said they expected demand to solidify for other types of chips, such as those used in smartphones and personal computers, as AI technologies are integrated into those devices.First off,last quarterI wished that TSMC would separate out AI revenue from general high-performance computing (HPC) revenue, so it would be easier to see to what extent AI-fueled GPU growth was coming at the expense of traditional CPU sales; I was pleased to see my wish granted! CEO C.C. Wei saidon the earnings call:Moving into first quarter, we expect our business to continue to be supported by strong demand for our leading edge process technologies. We continue to observe extremely robust AI related demand from our customers throughout the second half of 2024, leading to increasing overall capacity utilization rate for our leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer process technologies.At TSMC, we define server AI processors as GPUs, AI accelerators, and CPUs performing training and influence functions, and do not include networking, edge, or on-device AI. We now forecast the revenue contribution from server AI processors to more than triple this year, and account for mid-teens percentage of our total revenue in 2024. Supported by our technology leadership and broad customer base, we are well-positioned to capture the industry’s growth opportunities. We now forecast our full year revenue to increase by close to 30% in US dollar terms.To do some quick back-of-the-envelope math:TSMC’s HPC revenue in the first nine months of 2024 totaled $22 billion, a $4.4 billion increase over the first nine months of 2023.If we assume that a “mid-teens percentage of our total revenue” is 15%, AI chips have accounted for $9.5 billion in revenue year-to-dateIf that is a 300% increase, that means that AI has accounted for $6.3 billion in HPC growth, which means the rest of HPC has actually shrunk by $1.9 billion year-to-date.These are very fuzzy numbers, to be clear, but enough to confirm the suspicion that AI chip spending is definitely displacing a good amount of traditional CPU spend.Margins and ArizonaMeanwhile, this quarter from TSMC was a powerful example of foundry economics: TSMC’s higher-than-expected revenue was a function of selling a lot of leading edge chips; selling lots of leading edge chips meant their very-expensive fabs were running at full capacity. That leads to this, from CFO Wendell Huang on the earnings call:Third quarter revenue increased 12.8% sequentially in NT, as our business was supported by strong smartphone and AI related demand for our industry leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer technologies. Gross margin increased by 4.6% points sequentially to 57.8%, mainly reflecting a higher capacity utilization rate and cost improvement efforts. Due to operating leverage, total operating expenses accounted for 10.4% of net revenue.That’s a huge jump in margin, not from raising prices, and only a bit from cutting costs; rather, because most of the cost of goods for a foundry is depreciation, which is fixed, more volume means higher margins (and, on the flip side, decreased volume destroys margins).What is enticing about TSMC’s business is that things could get even better. First,as I noted last quarter, TSMC is almost certainly raising prices on the upcoming N2 and A16 processes. That will obviously help margins. Secondly, TSMC is signaling that demand for those generations is massive. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to a question about the shift to chiplets potentially depressing demand for leading edge processes:The chiplets have become especially our HPC customers’ strategy. Is it going to reduce the capacity for 2 nanometer because they become chiplets? The answer is no. Actually we have many, many customers interested in the 2 nanometer. And today with their activities with TSMC, we actually see more demand than we ever dream about as compared with N3. So we have to prepare more capacity in N2 than in N3. And following by A16, again, A16 is a very, very attractive for the AI server chips. And so actually the demand is also very high and so we are working very hard to prepare both 2 nanometer and A16 capacity.There is a third reason for optimism, which I will get to below, but meanwhile there are two potential countervailing factors. The first is obviously a collapse in demand; Wei, though, was adamant that he didn’t think this would happen, in part because of TSMC’s own experience:Let me answer your question. Simply, whether this AI demand is real or not. Okay. And my judgment is real. We have talked to our customers all the time, including our hyperscaler customers who are building their own chips. And almost every AI innovators is working with TSMC. And so we probably get the deepest and widest look than anyone in this industry.And why I say it’s real? Because we have our real experience. We have used the AI and machine learning in our fab, in R&D operations. By using AI, we are able to create more value by driving greater productivity, efficiency, speed, qualities. And think about it, let me use 1% productivity gain. That was almost equal to about $1 billion to TSMC. And this is a tangible ROI benefit. And I believe we cannot be the only one company that have benefited from this AI application. So I believe a lot of companies right now are using AI and for their own improving productivity, efficiency, and everything. So I think it’s real.The fervency of this belief won’t matter, of course, if AI demand does collapse; however, it’s still important for what it says for Intel’s prospects. Intel’s biggest opportunity is that demand simply overwhelms TSMC, and/or that TSMC approaches the AI opportunity conservatively. That would be a reasonable thing to do, given the foundry economics I talked about above!Wei certainly made it sound, though, that TSMC is full steam ahead; the company is slightly upping its capital expenditures for this year, which is notable given that it is already October, and certainly seems to be signaling that next year’s number will take a sizable leap. To that end, to the extent the company is able to meet increased demand is the extent that Intel’s opportunity is diminished; and, to the extent demand is over-estimated, is the extent that Intel is likely to be the biggest shock absorber of the pain.The second potential countervailing factor — beyondrising electricity rates in Taiwan— is the cost of TSMC’s overseas fabs. Huang said:The overseas fabs have basically a lower profitability than the fabs in Taiwan, mainly because of a smaller scale and of next year will be initial ramp and higher cost. So it will have a lower profitability, but it will gradually improve over the years. Now, don’t forget in Arizona and in Kumamoto, we are ramping more than one fabs. So when fab one begin to improve its profitability, the second phase comes in. And Arizona, when fab two improves, the third fab comes in. A similar situation in Kumamoto. And that’s the reason why we’re saying that in the next three or five years, we expect 2 to 3 percentage point dilution every year.This isn’t that big of a deal, given that TSMC has previously signaled that they will charge more for these chips, given that geographic location is part of the value they are providing customers. One thing that did occur to me, though, is an under-appreciated reason why the Arizona fabs in particular are doable is because of how TSMC has been adopting the Intel model. I explained in an Updatelast January:TSMC started out as a foundry selling trailing edge chips; the primary way of making money over the long run was to build a fab relatively cheaply using established equipment, and then run that fab for many years. Once all of the equipment was depreciated, every chip produced was almost pure profit, even if the revenue on a per-chip basis was fairly low.It was Intel, on the other hand, that charged the highest prices for the fastest chips, and all of its business was on the leading edge, selling its own chips; that meant that the company would take down old fabs and repurpose as much equipment as it could for the next node, instead of running the fab forever like a foundry would (this is one of Intel’s challenges in becoming a foundry: they simply don’t have much depreciated trailing edge capacity throwing off cash).What is interesting to note is that TSMC’s shift to a more Intel-like model in terms of its revenue drivers (leading edge) and profit drivers (high prices) is starting to impact how they manage their fabs. CFO Wendell Huang said inhis prepared remarks:In addition, we have a strategy so that some of our N3 capacity can be supported by N5 tools given the strong multiyear demand. Such a plan will enable higher capital efficiency in the mid to long term, but requires cost and effort in the near term. Most of this conversion will occur in second half of 2024, and we expect it to dilute our gross margin by about 1 to 2 percentage points in second half of 2024.Huang expanded on the plan in response to a question about the margin impact of this conversion:And N5 converted to N3, it’s a onetime short-term impact on profitability, which will bring capital efficiency to us in the middle to long term. And the benefits together will be much bigger than the onetime hit in the short term. So if you’re talking about the longer-term profitability, including these 2 factors, plus we’re selling our value, our technology value, as C. C. mentioned, we continue to drive down the cost.Notice what is happening here: TSMC, unlike its historical pattern, is not keeping (all of its) 5nm capacity to make low-cost high-margin chips in fully-depreciated fabs; rather, it is going to repurpose some amount of equipment — probably as much as it can manage — to 3nm, which will allow it to expand its capacity without a commensurate increase in capital costs. This will both increase the profitability of 3nm and also recognizes the reality that is afflicting TSMC’s 7nm node: there is an increasingly large gap between the leading edge and “good enough” nodes for the vast majority of use cases.This Intel-like approach to fabs should make a big difference for Arizona in particular: it’s a lot easier to absorb higher costs if the focus is on selling leading edge chips. Arizona isn’t fully on the leading edge — the fab that is ramping now is 4nm (i.e. the most advanced 5nm process) — but keeping that site close to the leading edge makes the economics much more manageable than they were the first time TSMC tried building in America 25 years ago. And, to that end, I would expect that the skills TSMC is gaining in converting fabs to the next node will be useful in keeping Arizona’s margins high in the years to come.ASML and Peak LithographyFromBloomberg:ASML Holding NV’s shares plunged the most in 26 years after it booked only about half the orders analysts expected, a startling slowdown for one of the bellwethers of the semiconductor industry. The Dutch company, which makes the world’s most advanced chipmaking machines, lowered its guidance for 2025 and reported bookings of €2.6 billion ($2.8 billion) in the third quarter, missing an average estimate of €5.39 billion by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.ASML’s earnings were released a day early on accident, and led to a widespread plunge in all semiconductor-related stocks;its earnings calla day later, though, made the same point I highlighted above with TSMC’s revenue: AI is doing great at the expense of everything else. CEO Christophe Fouquet said:With regards to market condition, while we continue to view AI as a key driver of the industry recovery with potential upside, we see other segments recovering more slowly than anticipated. The recovery will extend well into 2025, which is leading to customer cautiousness and some push outs in their investment. In logic, the slow recovery of end markets such as mobile and PC, together with specific competitive foundry dynamics, has resulted in a slower ramp of new nodes at certain customers who are as a results pushing out some of their fabs and changing their litho demand timing.Those two customers are clearly Intel, which is skipping the entire 20A node, and Samsung,which is delaying its planned Texas fabdue to a lack of customers. Neither company has any significant exposure to AI, and, thanks to the margin dynamics I noted above, have to be very judicious in just how much capital expenditure they outlay without having secured demand.That leaves TSMC and its upcoming investment at 2nm and 16A, which is a challenge for ASML for three reasons. First, there is the aforementioned shift in TSMC’s model; repurposing equipment likely means fewer lithography orders. Second, while ASML may have a monopoly on advanced lithography, TSMC is poised to have monopsony power in terms of being able to actually make money on processes that utilize ASML’s advanced lithography, which may depress prices (this is the third factor that could help TSMC’s margins).The third challenge is that we are past peak lithography, an idea put forth by Doug O’Laughlin atFabricated Knowledge:Another way to interrupt this statement is that EUV intensity is peaked if they think the DUV attach rate is growing as fast as EUV. This has been a long time coming, and Applied Materials puts it well in this slide – 3nm is the apex of lithography market share gains. This is not good for ASML and the EUV story.And how are we that surprised? Most innovations have been explicitly focused on reducing the EUV layer count. I’ve said this repeatedly, butyou can argue that Sculpta, reduction of EUV layers at TSMC, and evenBSPDNare about removing EUV layers. When the entire industry plans to use less EUV, lithography is peaking.The last decade has been the decade of Lithography, and I can almost assure you that Lithography spending will grow slower in the next decade than WFE [Wafer Fab Equipment]. And let’s not forget that in the decade before EUV, lithography was only 15-20% of the expenditure. I believe that lithography will revert to the mid-20s of WFE.I think it’s time for investors to accept the decade of lithography is over. The premium ASML has slowly gained for itself for the last decade should end as the decade of litho ends. And the recent price move has been a collapse of that premium. I believe it should trade in line with other semi-cap companies, as I’m sure that Litho will not outgrow WFE but will be valued for its strong monopoly.There are other factors affecting ASML, including export restrictions to China, but this point is a compelling one. ASML has been in the enviable position of not just riding the semiconductor wave, but massively increasing its revenue share of that wave thanks to the shift to EUV. Yes, more expensive EUV systems are coming, but the idea that the company’s growth will be increasingly pegged to overall semiconductor growth — which may be mostly one company — and should thus have a multiple in-line with other semiconductor equipment companies makes sense (and is still a very good business!).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email The world’s largest contract chip maker reassured investors that the artificial-intelligence boom is real after reporting a record quarterly profit. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Chief Executive C.C. Wei said Thursday that revenue from AI-related servers and processors was expected to triple this year and would account for about 15% of TSMC’s total revenue… Companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in AI-related chips and infrastructure in the expectation that the technology will transform industry and daily life, but some investors have expressed doubts about whether the frenzy is sustainable. Wei said TSMC was working with most of the leading AI companies and believed the boom would continue for many years. Aside from AI, growth in the semiconductor industry is slower because demand for consumer products such as smartphones has flattened and many manufacturers are working down stockpiles of chips they built up during the pandemic. Equipment supplier ASML warned this week that the recovery in some parts of the industry may stretch into next year, causing ASML shares to fall more than 20% over two days and hitting other chip stocks as well. TSMC executives said they expected demand to solidify for other types of chips, such as those used in smartphones and personal computers, as AI technologies are integrated into those devices. First off,last quarterI wished that TSMC would separate out AI revenue from general high-performance computing (HPC) revenue, so it would be easier to see to what extent AI-fueled GPU growth was coming at the expense of traditional CPU sales; I was pleased to see my wish granted! CEO C.C. Wei saidon the earnings call: Moving into first quarter, we expect our business to continue to be supported by strong demand for our leading edge process technologies. We continue to observe extremely robust AI related demand from our customers throughout the second half of 2024, leading to increasing overall capacity utilization rate for our leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer process technologies. At TSMC, we define server AI processors as GPUs, AI accelerators, and CPUs performing training and influence functions, and do not include networking, edge, or on-device AI. We now forecast the revenue contribution from server AI processors to more than triple this year, and account for mid-teens percentage of our total revenue in 2024. Supported by our technology leadership and broad customer base, we are well-positioned to capture the industry’s growth opportunities. We now forecast our full year revenue to increase by close to 30% in US dollar terms. Meanwhile, this quarter from TSMC was a powerful example of foundry economics: TSMC’s higher-than-expected revenue was a function of selling a lot of leading edge chips; selling lots of leading edge chips meant their very-expensive fabs were running at full capacity. That leads to this, from CFO Wendell Huang on the earnings call: Third quarter revenue increased 12.8% sequentially in NT, as our business was supported by strong smartphone and AI related demand for our industry leading 3 nanometer and 5 nanometer technologies. Gross margin increased by 4.6% points sequentially to 57.8%, mainly reflecting a higher capacity utilization rate and cost improvement efforts. Due to operating leverage, total operating expenses accounted for 10.4% of net revenue. That’s a huge jump in margin, not from raising prices, and only a bit from cutting costs; rather, because most of the cost of goods for a foundry is depreciation, which is fixed, more volume means higher margins (and, on the flip side, decreased volume destroys margins). What is enticing about TSMC’s business is that things could get even better. First,as I noted last quarter, TSMC is almost certainly raising prices on the upcoming N2 and A16 processes. That will obviously help margins. Secondly, TSMC is signaling that demand for those generations is massive. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to a question about the shift to chiplets potentially depressing demand for leading edge processes: The chiplets have become especially our HPC customers’ strategy. Is it going to reduce the capacity for 2 nanometer because they become chiplets? The answer is no. Actually we have many, many customers interested in the 2 nanometer. And today with their activities with TSMC, we actually see more demand than we ever dream about as compared with N3. So we have to prepare more capacity in N2 than in N3. And following by A16, again, A16 is a very, very attractive for the AI server chips. And so actually the demand is also very high and so we are working very hard to prepare both 2 nanometer and A16 capacity. There is a third reason for optimism, which I will get to below, but meanwhile there are two potential countervailing factors. The first is obviously a collapse in demand; Wei, though, was adamant that he didn’t think this would happen, in part because of TSMC’s own experience: Let me answer your question. Simply, whether this AI demand is real or not. Okay. And my judgment is real. We have talked to our customers all the time, including our hyperscaler customers who are building their own chips. And almost every AI innovators is working with TSMC. And so we probably get the deepest and widest look than anyone in this industry. And why I say it’s real? Because we have our real experience. We have used the AI and machine learning in our fab, in R&D operations. By using AI, we are able to create more value by driving greater productivity, efficiency, speed, qualities. And think about it, let me use 1% productivity gain. That was almost equal to about $1 billion to TSMC. And this is a tangible ROI benefit. And I believe we cannot be the only one company that have benefited from this AI application. So I believe a lot of companies right now are using AI and for their own improving productivity, efficiency, and everything. So I think it’s real. The fervency of this belief won’t matter, of course, if AI demand does collapse; however, it’s still important for what it says for Intel’s prospects. Intel’s biggest opportunity is that demand simply overwhelms TSMC, and/or that TSMC approaches the AI opportunity conservatively. That would be a reasonable thing to do, given the foundry economics I talked about above! Wei certainly made it sound, though, that TSMC is full steam ahead; the company is slightly upping its capital expenditures for this year, which is notable given that it is already October, and certainly seems to be signaling that next year’s number will take a sizable leap. To that end, to the extent the company is able to meet increased demand is the extent that Intel’s opportunity is diminished; and, to the extent demand is over-estimated, is the extent that Intel is likely to be the biggest shock absorber of the pain. The overseas fabs have basically a lower profitability than the fabs in Taiwan, mainly because of a smaller scale and of next year will be initial ramp and higher cost. So it will have a lower profitability, but it will gradually improve over the years. Now, don’t forget in Arizona and in Kumamoto, we are ramping more than one fabs. So when fab one begin to improve its profitability, the second phase comes in. And Arizona, when fab two improves, the third fab comes in. A similar situation in Kumamoto. And that’s the reason why we’re saying that in the next three or five years, we expect 2 to 3 percentage point dilution every year. This isn’t that big of a deal, given that TSMC has previously signaled that they will charge more for these chips, given that geographic location is part of the value they are providing customers. One thing that did occur to me, though, is an under-appreciated reason why the Arizona fabs in particular are doable is because of how TSMC has been adopting the Intel model. I explained in an Updatelast January: TSMC started out as a foundry selling trailing edge chips; the primary way of making money over the long run was to build a fab relatively cheaply using established equipment, and then run that fab for many years. Once all of the equipment was depreciated, every chip produced was almost pure profit, even if the revenue on a per-chip basis was fairly low. It was Intel, on the other hand, that charged the highest prices for the fastest chips, and all of its business was on the leading edge, selling its own chips; that meant that the company would take down old fabs and repurpose as much equipment as it could for the next node, instead of running the fab forever like a foundry would (this is one of Intel’s challenges in becoming a foundry: they simply don’t have much depreciated trailing edge capacity throwing off cash). What is interesting to note is that TSMC’s shift to a more Intel-like model in terms of its revenue drivers (leading edge) and profit drivers (high prices) is starting to impact how they manage their fabs. CFO Wendell Huang said inhis prepared remarks: In addition, we have a strategy so that some of our N3 capacity can be supported by N5 tools given the strong multiyear demand. Such a plan will enable higher capital efficiency in the mid to long term, but requires cost and effort in the near term. Most of this conversion will occur in second half of 2024, and we expect it to dilute our gross margin by about 1 to 2 percentage points in second half of 2024. And N5 converted to N3, it’s a onetime short-term impact on profitability, which will bring capital efficiency to us in the middle to long term. And the benefits together will be much bigger than the onetime hit in the short term. So if you’re talking about the longer-term profitability, including these 2 factors, plus we’re selling our value, our technology value, as C. C. mentioned, we continue to drive down the cost. Notice what is happening here: TSMC, unlike its historical pattern, is not keeping (all of its) 5nm capacity to make low-cost high-margin chips in fully-depreciated fabs; rather, it is going to repurpose some amount of equipment — probably as much as it can manage — to 3nm, which will allow it to expand its capacity without a commensurate increase in capital costs. This will both increase the profitability of 3nm and also recognizes the reality that is afflicting TSMC’s 7nm node: there is an increasingly large gap between the leading edge and “good enough” nodes for the vast majority of use cases. This Intel-like approach to fabs should make a big difference for Arizona in particular: it’s a lot easier to absorb higher costs if the focus is on selling leading edge chips. Arizona isn’t fully on the leading edge — the fab that is ramping now is 4nm (i.e. the most advanced 5nm process) — but keeping that site close to the leading edge makes the economics much more manageable than they were the first time TSMC tried building in America 25 years ago. And, to that end, I would expect that the skills TSMC is gaining in converting fabs to the next node will be useful in keeping Arizona’s margins high in the years to come. ASML Holding NV’s shares plunged the most in 26 years after it booked only about half the orders analysts expected, a startling slowdown for one of the bellwethers of the semiconductor industry. The Dutch company, which makes the world’s most advanced chipmaking machines, lowered its guidance for 2025 and reported bookings of €2.6 billion ($2.8 billion) in the third quarter, missing an average estimate of €5.39 billion by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. ASML’s earnings were released a day early on accident, and led to a widespread plunge in all semiconductor-related stocks;its earnings calla day later, though, made the same point I highlighted above with TSMC’s revenue: AI is doing great at the expense of everything else. CEO Christophe Fouquet said: With regards to market condition, while we continue to view AI as a key driver of the industry recovery with potential upside, we see other segments recovering more slowly than anticipated. The recovery will extend well into 2025, which is leading to customer cautiousness and some push outs in their investment. In logic, the slow recovery of end markets such as mobile and PC, together with specific competitive foundry dynamics, has resulted in a slower ramp of new nodes at certain customers who are as a results pushing out some of their fabs and changing their litho demand timing. Those two customers are clearly Intel, which is skipping the entire 20A node, and Samsung,which is delaying its planned Texas fabdue to a lack of customers. Neither company has any significant exposure to AI, and, thanks to the margin dynamics I noted above, have to be very judicious in just how much capital expenditure they outlay without having secured demand. That leaves TSMC and its upcoming investment at 2nm and 16A, which is a challenge for ASML for three reasons. First, there is the aforementioned shift in TSMC’s model; repurposing equipment likely means fewer lithography orders. Second, while ASML may have a monopoly on advanced lithography, TSMC is poised to have monopsony power in terms of being able to actually make money on processes that utilize ASML’s advanced lithography, which may depress prices (this is the third factor that could help TSMC’s margins). Another way to interrupt this statement is that EUV intensity is peaked if they think the DUV attach rate is growing as fast as EUV. This has been a long time coming, and Applied Materials puts it well in this slide – 3nm is the apex of lithography market share gains. This is not good for ASML and the EUV story. And how are we that surprised? Most innovations have been explicitly focused on reducing the EUV layer count. I’ve said this repeatedly, butyou can argue that Sculpta, reduction of EUV layers at TSMC, and evenBSPDNare about removing EUV layers. When the entire industry plans to use less EUV, lithography is peaking. The last decade has been the decade of Lithography, and I can almost assure you that Lithography spending will grow slower in the next decade than WFE [Wafer Fab Equipment]. And let’s not forget that in the decade before EUV, lithography was only 15-20% of the expenditure. I believe that lithography will revert to the mid-20s of WFE. I think it’s time for investors to accept the decade of lithography is over. The premium ASML has slowly gained for itself for the last decade should end as the decade of litho ends. And the recent price move has been a collapse of that premium. I believe it should trade in line with other semi-cap companies, as I’m sure that Litho will not outgrow WFE but will be valued for its strong monopoly. There are other factors affecting ASML, including export restrictions to China, but this point is a compelling one. ASML has been in the enviable position of not just riding the semiconductor wave, but massively increasing its revenue share of that wave thanks to the shift to EUV. Yes, more expensive EUV systems are coming, but the idea that the company’s growth will be increasingly pegged to overall semiconductor growth — which may be mostly one company — and should thus have a multiple in-line with other semiconductor equipment companies makes sense (and is still a very good business!). The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025