# [PODCAST] Encryption and the Uneasy Compromise, Netflix Earnings, The Aggregator's Compounding Advantage

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/encryption-and-the-uneasy-compromise-netflix-earnings-the-aggregators-compounding-advantage/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.IirMyBLUKdchZzEyx_SVWWxqsmbrlBz4-JKvI0MW2CH8Gpmh7J8T8gGx3OK1t4Fs2B8JRx9uyLtslbxKe9FMqWaJ9JR8-Ud1wJTP5wZWrWw6DDG140va1__9nsUPFnoG5xiazaFrth8RhETA7f5YDH6R6tLHNQl85lPEzBzc_1yfeoytSeuitYsdEhmx-zcp4I4i4yRFwEO0nPLTBS5c4sK6S0Xmt_P66IdimNXOr9IXHsqcUQZbP1ulbLn5GSFt6Vy-dpxoBMaUaROOgZnvURElaHHaX01nnf9662AI81LGucLnOC9ut2Cr2VyL5-3tW75K0wfmxIIpDM1xR9z4TQ
**Atlas ID**: 229621
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.909008

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirEncryption and the Uneasy Compromise, Netflix Earnings, The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageWednesday, February 19, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The promisedSharp Tech/Sharp Chinacrossover episode is out, and it’s a doozy. Bill and I cover this week’s private enterprise symposium and Xi Jinping’s rapprochement with China’s tech companies, and the connection between xAI and DeepSeek. Then, we have an extended debate on the chip ban, including its potential long-term consequences, and whether or not a course correction is possible. Finally, we discuss why the situation surround Taiwan is worrisome, and whether Trump is looking to make a deal.I also need to issue a correction: inyesterday’s UpdateI said that Grok-3 was trained on 20,000 GPUs; in fact, the number of GPUs is not verified. I’m actually not sure where I got that number; I think it was from the Grok-2 reporting. I’ve seen mutters about the actual training run being on closer to 60,000 GPUs, but I have no idea if that is true. Regardless, this was a careless mistake, and I apologize.On to the Update:Encryption and the Uneasy CompromiseJohn Gruber and I discussed the U.K.’s demand for an encryption backdoor onyesterday’s episode of Dithering, where I recalled a point that I had made previously and should have brought upin my Update last week. It comes froman Update I wrote in January 2020about iCloudnotbeing encrypted:I actually think that Apple does an excellent job of striking that balance today. When it comes to the iPhone itself, Apple is the only entity that can make it truly secure; no individual can build their own secure enclave that sits at the root of iPhone security. Therefore, they are right to do so: everyone has access to encryption.From there it is possible to build a fully secure environment: use only encrypted communications, use encrypted backups to a computer secured by its own hardware-based authentication scheme, etc. Taking the slightly easier route, though — iCloud backups, Facebook messaging, etc. — means some degree of vulnerability that, let’s not forget, is sometimes justifiably leveraged. Law enforcement can get a warrant for those backups or chat logs, just as they can install a wire tap.Again, this isn’t going to stop determined bad actors, but as I noted, nothing is. The question is what of the rest, those that get swept up by the worst sort of communities, and who commit legitimate crimes: what should their defaults be?I should also note that I am skeptical that this philosophy is what actually undergirds Apple’s thinking. I suspect their reasoning is much more utilitarian: holding the key to iCloud backups keeps the FBI off of their back, and it lets them operate iCloud in China (remember, the keys are stored locally). It is the most pragmatic way to have their public privacy cake and eat it too.I think that whole Update is worth a re-visit, particularly the parts where I split up the warring factions on this issue into “Math Fatalists”, “Privacy Fundamentalists”, and “Law and Order”. The conclusion that I reached in the above excerpt, however, is that encryption should not be illegal — and Apple should not be compelled to put backdoors into iPhones — but it’s ok if the most convenient cloud complements to a user’s devices are not end-to-end encrypted; that’s a compromise position that gives each faction a bit of what they want, if not everything.What I think the U.K. would argue is that it is Apple that broke this uneasy compromise by offering Advanced Data Protection — which fully encrypts iCloud backups — even though it is off by default. In this light, the U.K. demanding that Advanced Data Encryption have a backdoor put in it is in fact demanding a restoration to that uneasy compromise position. And, given that I endorsed that state of affairs, why should I get worked up about this request?The answer goes back to another Apple privacy debate, in this case their proposal to do on-device scanning for Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM); I wrote inApple’s Mistake:The fundamental issue — and the first reason why I think Apple made a mistake here — is that there is a meaningful difference between capability and policy. One of the most powerful arguments in Apple’s favor in the2016 San Bernardino caseis that the company didn’t even have the means to break into the iPhone in question, and that to build the capability would open the company up to a multitude of requests that were far less pressing in nature, and weaken the company’s ability to stand up to foreign governments. In this case, though, Apple is building the capability, and the only thing holding the company back is policy.The connection to this case is probably obvious: the problem with mandating a backdoor into encryption is that using that backdoor is now a matter of policy instead of capability, above and beyond the long-term security risks that I focused on in my Update. That’s why I do still stand by my Update last week — the U.K. should not ask for this, and Apple should be willing to leave the country over it — but I do at least have more empathy for the position of the “Law and Order” faction and their sense that Apple is the one that undid the uneasy compromise.Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg, almost a month(!) ago:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high on Wednesday after the streaming giant reported its biggest quarterly subscriber gain in history, buoyed by its first major live sporting events and the return of Squid Game. The company added 18.9 million customers in the fourth quarter, according to a shareholder letter Tuesday. That was more than double what Wall Street expected and brought global subscribers at Netflix to more than 300 million. The company’s previous best was 15 million in the first quarter of 2020 — numbers driven by the onset of the coronavirus pandemic…This is the final time Netflix will report quarterly subscriber numbers. The company’s stock has historically risen and fallen based on customer additions, but management is trying to get investors to prioritize financial metrics like sales and profit. The company reported revenue grew 16% to $10.2 billion for the quarter, the biggest gain since late 2021, and said sales will grow faster than predicted in 2025.Netflix will boost sales by increasing prices in its home market. The company is raising prices in the US, Canada, Portugal and Argentina, with the most popular US plan going to $17.99 a month, an increase of $2.50. Netflix is also increasing the cost of its cheaper advertising-supported plan.There has been, needless to say, a lot going on the last month, and I missed the earnings for a few companies that I usually cover; I’ll explain why I wanted to come back to Netflix’s in a moment, but a few quick notes as long as I’m here:While I don’t think Netflix planned it this way, it is quite the flex to report record subscriber ads in the last quarter where they will report that number as a matter of course.I thought the reporting change was reasonable, but I also thought that part of the reason for the reporting change was because the password-sharing crackdown represented the last big growth surge. I guess not!Netflix executiveson the earnings callstrongly disagreed with an analyst who assumed that the Mike Tyson-Jake Paul boxing event and Christmas Day NFL games were the primary drivers of that subscriber growth, crediting them with only “a small minority of our total member acquisition in the quarter”; that said, executives also spoke very positively about the events and that they would do more.Netflix announced late last yearthat they had acquired the U.S. rights to the Women’s World Cup in 2027 and 2031; unsurprisingly, andin line with my Update a couple of weeks agoabout F1, Netflix is signaling that they plan on producing a host of accompanying content in the run-up to those events, seeking to capture not just the rights value but also the cultural value.That Update, I should note, was in the context of F1, where I expressed skepticism that Netflix would acquire the rights given that they are U.S. only; these soccer rights, however, are U.S.-only as well, and Netflix still sees the value, so I guess us F1 fans will have to stay tuned.The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageNow we get to the reason I wanted to go back a month to these earnings. Robert Fishman ofMoffettNathansonreleased a research report last week entitled “U.S. Media: Streaming Scale Matters.” Much of it reads like a confirmation of my thesis thatNetflix is in fact an Aggregator:The oft-held premise, at least in the early days of the streaming wars, was that you needed to invest massively in content to drive engagement and scale your platform. Today, Netflix spends more on DTC-only content than any other company, exceeding $15 billion in global content amortization in 2024. That is nearly $7 billion more than the second largest DTC spender in Disney, which expensed $8.6 billion in DTC programming amortization in FY 2024. It is also nearly equal to the DTC expenses of WBD, NBCU, and Paramount combined.As with most businesses, there are massive benefits to scale in streaming. Thus, it should come as no surprise that Netflix manages to sustain its industry-leading levels of content spending through its significant lead in global scale, which enables it to spread the costs over a bigger base. While Netflix spends far more on DTC content than any other company, when we look at content spend per subscriber, we see that Netflix is right in line with Disney and WBD, and our forecast sees this ratio holding relatively steady over the next three years (see Exhibit 11). Peacock and Paramountt, on the other hand, currently spend significantly more than Netflix on a per subscriber basis, in part because their platforms index more towards the U.S. (or in Peacock’s case, exclusively to the U.S.) which is one of the more expensive markets in which to operate, and in part thanks to both platform’s heavy focus on sports. The ultimate driver, though, is lack of scale.Because Netflix has more subscribers to spread its content spending across, it can afford to spend more on content. Because it has more content, it drives better engagement, leading to more subscribers and possibly better pricing power in a virtuous cycle that has played out quite well for the company to date.So far, so good, and very much in line with my expectations. I promise, however, I’m not here for a victory tour. Rather, it was Fishman’s next point that I think is worth calling out:Yet, another underappreciated aspect is this has enabled Netflix, and to a lesser extent Disney, to undercut its competitors in terms of monetization. Netflix in 2024 generated less revenue per hour viewed in the U.S. than any other major SVOD platform at just $0.36, of which only $0.34 came out of its users’ pockets in the form of subscription fees. U.S. Disney+ subscribers paid $0.40 in 2024 for each hour of viewing (see Exhibit 12).Yes, it may be an obvious point that a platform with a larger viewership base to spread its revenue across will naturally have lower revenue per hour, but that is also key to understanding Netflix’s success and why its competitors have and will continue to struggle to catch up: Netflix delivers great value. The average Paramount+ subscriber is paying double in subscription fees for each hour of viewing pleasure compared to the average Netflix subscriber in the U.S.This makes total sense, and is a worthy extension of Aggregation Theory. Specifically, while more subscribers means that Netflix can spend more on content, thus attracting more subscribers, more content also means that Netflix can drive more engagement on a per-customer basis — there’s just more to watch! This, in Netflix’s case, provides “permission” to raise prices; Co-CEO Greg Peters said on the recent earnings call the same concept Netflix executives espouse on every earnings call:Our pricing philosophy hasn’t changed. It’s pretty much the same as we’ve talked about for the last several years. Of course, we look to continue to provide more value to our members, seeking to wisely invest to increase the variety and quality of our entertainment offering. And then we listen to those members. We listen for signals like engagement, retention, acquisition. There’s more secondary signals as well, all to tell us when we’ve achieved that increase in value. And when we’ve done that, then we ask them to pay a bit more to keep that virtuous cycle going.This principle extends to non-subscription businesses as well; consider a social network: the more compelling the content, the more time users spend, which means the more ads they can see. This isn’t, to be fair to me, exactly a novel insight; I said inthe original Aggregation Theory Article:This has fundamentally changed the plane of competition: no longer do distributors compete based upon exclusive supplier relationships, with consumers/users an afterthought. Instead, suppliers can be commoditized leaving consumers/users as a first order priority. By extension, this means that the most important factor determining success is the user experience: the best distributors/aggregators/market-makers win by providing the best experience, which earns them the most consumers/users, which attracts the most suppliers, which enhances the user experience in a virtuous cycle.What I was not explicit about — and really hadn’t fully considered, until I read Nathanson’s piece — is how directly this is linked to monetization. Netflix doesn’t just have more buying power because it has the most customers; it has the most pricing power as well. A better user experience — which Aggregators have a structural advantage in providing — is worth paying for! That, by extension, means that the Aggregator’s virtuous cycle isn’t only a function of having ever more subscribers, but also in the related capacity to charge each of those subscribers more; the advantage compounds.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.08: How To Train Your DroneDateFriday, February 21, 2025Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024←Grok 3, The Nvidia Shortcut, Competitive ImplicationsAn Interview with Manna Founder and CEO Bobby Healy About Drone Delivery→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Encryption and the Uneasy Compromise, Netflix Earnings, The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageWednesday, February 19, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The promisedSharp Tech/Sharp Chinacrossover episode is out, and it’s a doozy. Bill and I cover this week’s private enterprise symposium and Xi Jinping’s rapprochement with China’s tech companies, and the connection between xAI and DeepSeek. Then, we have an extended debate on the chip ban, including its potential long-term consequences, and whether or not a course correction is possible. Finally, we discuss why the situation surround Taiwan is worrisome, and whether Trump is looking to make a deal.I also need to issue a correction: inyesterday’s UpdateI said that Grok-3 was trained on 20,000 GPUs; in fact, the number of GPUs is not verified. I’m actually not sure where I got that number; I think it was from the Grok-2 reporting. I’ve seen mutters about the actual training run being on closer to 60,000 GPUs, but I have no idea if that is true. Regardless, this was a careless mistake, and I apologize.On to the Update:Encryption and the Uneasy CompromiseJohn Gruber and I discussed the U.K.’s demand for an encryption backdoor onyesterday’s episode of Dithering, where I recalled a point that I had made previously and should have brought upin my Update last week. It comes froman Update I wrote in January 2020about iCloudnotbeing encrypted:I actually think that Apple does an excellent job of striking that balance today. When it comes to the iPhone itself, Apple is the only entity that can make it truly secure; no individual can build their own secure enclave that sits at the root of iPhone security. Therefore, they are right to do so: everyone has access to encryption.From there it is possible to build a fully secure environment: use only encrypted communications, use encrypted backups to a computer secured by its own hardware-based authentication scheme, etc. Taking the slightly easier route, though — iCloud backups, Facebook messaging, etc. — means some degree of vulnerability that, let’s not forget, is sometimes justifiably leveraged. Law enforcement can get a warrant for those backups or chat logs, just as they can install a wire tap.Again, this isn’t going to stop determined bad actors, but as I noted, nothing is. The question is what of the rest, those that get swept up by the worst sort of communities, and who commit legitimate crimes: what should their defaults be?I should also note that I am skeptical that this philosophy is what actually undergirds Apple’s thinking. I suspect their reasoning is much more utilitarian: holding the key to iCloud backups keeps the FBI off of their back, and it lets them operate iCloud in China (remember, the keys are stored locally). It is the most pragmatic way to have their public privacy cake and eat it too.I think that whole Update is worth a re-visit, particularly the parts where I split up the warring factions on this issue into “Math Fatalists”, “Privacy Fundamentalists”, and “Law and Order”. The conclusion that I reached in the above excerpt, however, is that encryption should not be illegal — and Apple should not be compelled to put backdoors into iPhones — but it’s ok if the most convenient cloud complements to a user’s devices are not end-to-end encrypted; that’s a compromise position that gives each faction a bit of what they want, if not everything.What I think the U.K. would argue is that it is Apple that broke this uneasy compromise by offering Advanced Data Protection — which fully encrypts iCloud backups — even though it is off by default. In this light, the U.K. demanding that Advanced Data Encryption have a backdoor put in it is in fact demanding a restoration to that uneasy compromise position. And, given that I endorsed that state of affairs, why should I get worked up about this request?The answer goes back to another Apple privacy debate, in this case their proposal to do on-device scanning for Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM); I wrote inApple’s Mistake:The fundamental issue — and the first reason why I think Apple made a mistake here — is that there is a meaningful difference between capability and policy. One of the most powerful arguments in Apple’s favor in the2016 San Bernardino caseis that the company didn’t even have the means to break into the iPhone in question, and that to build the capability would open the company up to a multitude of requests that were far less pressing in nature, and weaken the company’s ability to stand up to foreign governments. In this case, though, Apple is building the capability, and the only thing holding the company back is policy.The connection to this case is probably obvious: the problem with mandating a backdoor into encryption is that using that backdoor is now a matter of policy instead of capability, above and beyond the long-term security risks that I focused on in my Update. That’s why I do still stand by my Update last week — the U.K. should not ask for this, and Apple should be willing to leave the country over it — but I do at least have more empathy for the position of the “Law and Order” faction and their sense that Apple is the one that undid the uneasy compromise.Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg, almost a month(!) ago:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high on Wednesday after the streaming giant reported its biggest quarterly subscriber gain in history, buoyed by its first major live sporting events and the return of Squid Game. The company added 18.9 million customers in the fourth quarter, according to a shareholder letter Tuesday. That was more than double what Wall Street expected and brought global subscribers at Netflix to more than 300 million. The company’s previous best was 15 million in the first quarter of 2020 — numbers driven by the onset of the coronavirus pandemic…This is the final time Netflix will report quarterly subscriber numbers. The company’s stock has historically risen and fallen based on customer additions, but management is trying to get investors to prioritize financial metrics like sales and profit. The company reported revenue grew 16% to $10.2 billion for the quarter, the biggest gain since late 2021, and said sales will grow faster than predicted in 2025.Netflix will boost sales by increasing prices in its home market. The company is raising prices in the US, Canada, Portugal and Argentina, with the most popular US plan going to $17.99 a month, an increase of $2.50. Netflix is also increasing the cost of its cheaper advertising-supported plan.There has been, needless to say, a lot going on the last month, and I missed the earnings for a few companies that I usually cover; I’ll explain why I wanted to come back to Netflix’s in a moment, but a few quick notes as long as I’m here:While I don’t think Netflix planned it this way, it is quite the flex to report record subscriber ads in the last quarter where they will report that number as a matter of course.I thought the reporting change was reasonable, but I also thought that part of the reason for the reporting change was because the password-sharing crackdown represented the last big growth surge. I guess not!Netflix executiveson the earnings callstrongly disagreed with an analyst who assumed that the Mike Tyson-Jake Paul boxing event and Christmas Day NFL games were the primary drivers of that subscriber growth, crediting them with only “a small minority of our total member acquisition in the quarter”; that said, executives also spoke very positively about the events and that they would do more.Netflix announced late last yearthat they had acquired the U.S. rights to the Women’s World Cup in 2027 and 2031; unsurprisingly, andin line with my Update a couple of weeks agoabout F1, Netflix is signaling that they plan on producing a host of accompanying content in the run-up to those events, seeking to capture not just the rights value but also the cultural value.That Update, I should note, was in the context of F1, where I expressed skepticism that Netflix would acquire the rights given that they are U.S. only; these soccer rights, however, are U.S.-only as well, and Netflix still sees the value, so I guess us F1 fans will have to stay tuned.The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageNow we get to the reason I wanted to go back a month to these earnings. Robert Fishman ofMoffettNathansonreleased a research report last week entitled “U.S. Media: Streaming Scale Matters.” Much of it reads like a confirmation of my thesis thatNetflix is in fact an Aggregator:The oft-held premise, at least in the early days of the streaming wars, was that you needed to invest massively in content to drive engagement and scale your platform. Today, Netflix spends more on DTC-only content than any other company, exceeding $15 billion in global content amortization in 2024. That is nearly $7 billion more than the second largest DTC spender in Disney, which expensed $8.6 billion in DTC programming amortization in FY 2024. It is also nearly equal to the DTC expenses of WBD, NBCU, and Paramount combined.As with most businesses, there are massive benefits to scale in streaming. Thus, it should come as no surprise that Netflix manages to sustain its industry-leading levels of content spending through its significant lead in global scale, which enables it to spread the costs over a bigger base. While Netflix spends far more on DTC content than any other company, when we look at content spend per subscriber, we see that Netflix is right in line with Disney and WBD, and our forecast sees this ratio holding relatively steady over the next three years (see Exhibit 11). Peacock and Paramountt, on the other hand, currently spend significantly more than Netflix on a per subscriber basis, in part because their platforms index more towards the U.S. (or in Peacock’s case, exclusively to the U.S.) which is one of the more expensive markets in which to operate, and in part thanks to both platform’s heavy focus on sports. The ultimate driver, though, is lack of scale.Because Netflix has more subscribers to spread its content spending across, it can afford to spend more on content. Because it has more content, it drives better engagement, leading to more subscribers and possibly better pricing power in a virtuous cycle that has played out quite well for the company to date.So far, so good, and very much in line with my expectations. I promise, however, I’m not here for a victory tour. Rather, it was Fishman’s next point that I think is worth calling out:Yet, another underappreciated aspect is this has enabled Netflix, and to a lesser extent Disney, to undercut its competitors in terms of monetization. Netflix in 2024 generated less revenue per hour viewed in the U.S. than any other major SVOD platform at just $0.36, of which only $0.34 came out of its users’ pockets in the form of subscription fees. U.S. Disney+ subscribers paid $0.40 in 2024 for each hour of viewing (see Exhibit 12).Yes, it may be an obvious point that a platform with a larger viewership base to spread its revenue across will naturally have lower revenue per hour, but that is also key to understanding Netflix’s success and why its competitors have and will continue to struggle to catch up: Netflix delivers great value. The average Paramount+ subscriber is paying double in subscription fees for each hour of viewing pleasure compared to the average Netflix subscriber in the U.S.This makes total sense, and is a worthy extension of Aggregation Theory. Specifically, while more subscribers means that Netflix can spend more on content, thus attracting more subscribers, more content also means that Netflix can drive more engagement on a per-customer basis — there’s just more to watch! This, in Netflix’s case, provides “permission” to raise prices; Co-CEO Greg Peters said on the recent earnings call the same concept Netflix executives espouse on every earnings call:Our pricing philosophy hasn’t changed. It’s pretty much the same as we’ve talked about for the last several years. Of course, we look to continue to provide more value to our members, seeking to wisely invest to increase the variety and quality of our entertainment offering. And then we listen to those members. We listen for signals like engagement, retention, acquisition. There’s more secondary signals as well, all to tell us when we’ve achieved that increase in value. And when we’ve done that, then we ask them to pay a bit more to keep that virtuous cycle going.This principle extends to non-subscription businesses as well; consider a social network: the more compelling the content, the more time users spend, which means the more ads they can see. This isn’t, to be fair to me, exactly a novel insight; I said inthe original Aggregation Theory Article:This has fundamentally changed the plane of competition: no longer do distributors compete based upon exclusive supplier relationships, with consumers/users an afterthought. Instead, suppliers can be commoditized leaving consumers/users as a first order priority. By extension, this means that the most important factor determining success is the user experience: the best distributors/aggregators/market-makers win by providing the best experience, which earns them the most consumers/users, which attracts the most suppliers, which enhances the user experience in a virtuous cycle.What I was not explicit about — and really hadn’t fully considered, until I read Nathanson’s piece — is how directly this is linked to monetization. Netflix doesn’t just have more buying power because it has the most customers; it has the most pricing power as well. A better user experience — which Aggregators have a structural advantage in providing — is worth paying for! That, by extension, means that the Aggregator’s virtuous cycle isn’t only a function of having ever more subscribers, but also in the related capacity to charge each of those subscribers more; the advantage compounds.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.08: How To Train Your DroneDateFriday, February 21, 2025Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024←Grok 3, The Nvidia Shortcut, Competitive ImplicationsAn Interview with Manna Founder and CEO Bobby Healy About Drone Delivery→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Encryption and the Uneasy Compromise, Netflix Earnings, The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageWednesday, February 19, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The promisedSharp Tech/Sharp Chinacrossover episode is out, and it’s a doozy. Bill and I cover this week’s private enterprise symposium and Xi Jinping’s rapprochement with China’s tech companies, and the connection between xAI and DeepSeek. Then, we have an extended debate on the chip ban, including its potential long-term consequences, and whether or not a course correction is possible. Finally, we discuss why the situation surround Taiwan is worrisome, and whether Trump is looking to make a deal.I also need to issue a correction: inyesterday’s UpdateI said that Grok-3 was trained on 20,000 GPUs; in fact, the number of GPUs is not verified. I’m actually not sure where I got that number; I think it was from the Grok-2 reporting. I’ve seen mutters about the actual training run being on closer to 60,000 GPUs, but I have no idea if that is true. Regardless, this was a careless mistake, and I apologize.On to the Update:Encryption and the Uneasy CompromiseJohn Gruber and I discussed the U.K.’s demand for an encryption backdoor onyesterday’s episode of Dithering, where I recalled a point that I had made previously and should have brought upin my Update last week. It comes froman Update I wrote in January 2020about iCloudnotbeing encrypted:I actually think that Apple does an excellent job of striking that balance today. When it comes to the iPhone itself, Apple is the only entity that can make it truly secure; no individual can build their own secure enclave that sits at the root of iPhone security. Therefore, they are right to do so: everyone has access to encryption.From there it is possible to build a fully secure environment: use only encrypted communications, use encrypted backups to a computer secured by its own hardware-based authentication scheme, etc. Taking the slightly easier route, though — iCloud backups, Facebook messaging, etc. — means some degree of vulnerability that, let’s not forget, is sometimes justifiably leveraged. Law enforcement can get a warrant for those backups or chat logs, just as they can install a wire tap.Again, this isn’t going to stop determined bad actors, but as I noted, nothing is. The question is what of the rest, those that get swept up by the worst sort of communities, and who commit legitimate crimes: what should their defaults be?I should also note that I am skeptical that this philosophy is what actually undergirds Apple’s thinking. I suspect their reasoning is much more utilitarian: holding the key to iCloud backups keeps the FBI off of their back, and it lets them operate iCloud in China (remember, the keys are stored locally). It is the most pragmatic way to have their public privacy cake and eat it too.I think that whole Update is worth a re-visit, particularly the parts where I split up the warring factions on this issue into “Math Fatalists”, “Privacy Fundamentalists”, and “Law and Order”. The conclusion that I reached in the above excerpt, however, is that encryption should not be illegal — and Apple should not be compelled to put backdoors into iPhones — but it’s ok if the most convenient cloud complements to a user’s devices are not end-to-end encrypted; that’s a compromise position that gives each faction a bit of what they want, if not everything.What I think the U.K. would argue is that it is Apple that broke this uneasy compromise by offering Advanced Data Protection — which fully encrypts iCloud backups — even though it is off by default. In this light, the U.K. demanding that Advanced Data Encryption have a backdoor put in it is in fact demanding a restoration to that uneasy compromise position. And, given that I endorsed that state of affairs, why should I get worked up about this request?The answer goes back to another Apple privacy debate, in this case their proposal to do on-device scanning for Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM); I wrote inApple’s Mistake:The fundamental issue — and the first reason why I think Apple made a mistake here — is that there is a meaningful difference between capability and policy. One of the most powerful arguments in Apple’s favor in the2016 San Bernardino caseis that the company didn’t even have the means to break into the iPhone in question, and that to build the capability would open the company up to a multitude of requests that were far less pressing in nature, and weaken the company’s ability to stand up to foreign governments. In this case, though, Apple is building the capability, and the only thing holding the company back is policy.The connection to this case is probably obvious: the problem with mandating a backdoor into encryption is that using that backdoor is now a matter of policy instead of capability, above and beyond the long-term security risks that I focused on in my Update. That’s why I do still stand by my Update last week — the U.K. should not ask for this, and Apple should be willing to leave the country over it — but I do at least have more empathy for the position of the “Law and Order” faction and their sense that Apple is the one that undid the uneasy compromise.Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg, almost a month(!) ago:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high on Wednesday after the streaming giant reported its biggest quarterly subscriber gain in history, buoyed by its first major live sporting events and the return of Squid Game. The company added 18.9 million customers in the fourth quarter, according to a shareholder letter Tuesday. That was more than double what Wall Street expected and brought global subscribers at Netflix to more than 300 million. The company’s previous best was 15 million in the first quarter of 2020 — numbers driven by the onset of the coronavirus pandemic…This is the final time Netflix will report quarterly subscriber numbers. The company’s stock has historically risen and fallen based on customer additions, but management is trying to get investors to prioritize financial metrics like sales and profit. The company reported revenue grew 16% to $10.2 billion for the quarter, the biggest gain since late 2021, and said sales will grow faster than predicted in 2025.Netflix will boost sales by increasing prices in its home market. The company is raising prices in the US, Canada, Portugal and Argentina, with the most popular US plan going to $17.99 a month, an increase of $2.50. Netflix is also increasing the cost of its cheaper advertising-supported plan.There has been, needless to say, a lot going on the last month, and I missed the earnings for a few companies that I usually cover; I’ll explain why I wanted to come back to Netflix’s in a moment, but a few quick notes as long as I’m here:While I don’t think Netflix planned it this way, it is quite the flex to report record subscriber ads in the last quarter where they will report that number as a matter of course.I thought the reporting change was reasonable, but I also thought that part of the reason for the reporting change was because the password-sharing crackdown represented the last big growth surge. I guess not!Netflix executiveson the earnings callstrongly disagreed with an analyst who assumed that the Mike Tyson-Jake Paul boxing event and Christmas Day NFL games were the primary drivers of that subscriber growth, crediting them with only “a small minority of our total member acquisition in the quarter”; that said, executives also spoke very positively about the events and that they would do more.Netflix announced late last yearthat they had acquired the U.S. rights to the Women’s World Cup in 2027 and 2031; unsurprisingly, andin line with my Update a couple of weeks agoabout F1, Netflix is signaling that they plan on producing a host of accompanying content in the run-up to those events, seeking to capture not just the rights value but also the cultural value.That Update, I should note, was in the context of F1, where I expressed skepticism that Netflix would acquire the rights given that they are U.S. only; these soccer rights, however, are U.S.-only as well, and Netflix still sees the value, so I guess us F1 fans will have to stay tuned.The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageNow we get to the reason I wanted to go back a month to these earnings. Robert Fishman ofMoffettNathansonreleased a research report last week entitled “U.S. Media: Streaming Scale Matters.” Much of it reads like a confirmation of my thesis thatNetflix is in fact an Aggregator:The oft-held premise, at least in the early days of the streaming wars, was that you needed to invest massively in content to drive engagement and scale your platform. Today, Netflix spends more on DTC-only content than any other company, exceeding $15 billion in global content amortization in 2024. That is nearly $7 billion more than the second largest DTC spender in Disney, which expensed $8.6 billion in DTC programming amortization in FY 2024. It is also nearly equal to the DTC expenses of WBD, NBCU, and Paramount combined.As with most businesses, there are massive benefits to scale in streaming. Thus, it should come as no surprise that Netflix manages to sustain its industry-leading levels of content spending through its significant lead in global scale, which enables it to spread the costs over a bigger base. While Netflix spends far more on DTC content than any other company, when we look at content spend per subscriber, we see that Netflix is right in line with Disney and WBD, and our forecast sees this ratio holding relatively steady over the next three years (see Exhibit 11). Peacock and Paramountt, on the other hand, currently spend significantly more than Netflix on a per subscriber basis, in part because their platforms index more towards the U.S. (or in Peacock’s case, exclusively to the U.S.) which is one of the more expensive markets in which to operate, and in part thanks to both platform’s heavy focus on sports. The ultimate driver, though, is lack of scale.Because Netflix has more subscribers to spread its content spending across, it can afford to spend more on content. Because it has more content, it drives better engagement, leading to more subscribers and possibly better pricing power in a virtuous cycle that has played out quite well for the company to date.So far, so good, and very much in line with my expectations. I promise, however, I’m not here for a victory tour. Rather, it was Fishman’s next point that I think is worth calling out:Yet, another underappreciated aspect is this has enabled Netflix, and to a lesser extent Disney, to undercut its competitors in terms of monetization. Netflix in 2024 generated less revenue per hour viewed in the U.S. than any other major SVOD platform at just $0.36, of which only $0.34 came out of its users’ pockets in the form of subscription fees. U.S. Disney+ subscribers paid $0.40 in 2024 for each hour of viewing (see Exhibit 12).Yes, it may be an obvious point that a platform with a larger viewership base to spread its revenue across will naturally have lower revenue per hour, but that is also key to understanding Netflix’s success and why its competitors have and will continue to struggle to catch up: Netflix delivers great value. The average Paramount+ subscriber is paying double in subscription fees for each hour of viewing pleasure compared to the average Netflix subscriber in the U.S.This makes total sense, and is a worthy extension of Aggregation Theory. Specifically, while more subscribers means that Netflix can spend more on content, thus attracting more subscribers, more content also means that Netflix can drive more engagement on a per-customer basis — there’s just more to watch! This, in Netflix’s case, provides “permission” to raise prices; Co-CEO Greg Peters said on the recent earnings call the same concept Netflix executives espouse on every earnings call:Our pricing philosophy hasn’t changed. It’s pretty much the same as we’ve talked about for the last several years. Of course, we look to continue to provide more value to our members, seeking to wisely invest to increase the variety and quality of our entertainment offering. And then we listen to those members. We listen for signals like engagement, retention, acquisition. There’s more secondary signals as well, all to tell us when we’ve achieved that increase in value. And when we’ve done that, then we ask them to pay a bit more to keep that virtuous cycle going.This principle extends to non-subscription businesses as well; consider a social network: the more compelling the content, the more time users spend, which means the more ads they can see. This isn’t, to be fair to me, exactly a novel insight; I said inthe original Aggregation Theory Article:This has fundamentally changed the plane of competition: no longer do distributors compete based upon exclusive supplier relationships, with consumers/users an afterthought. Instead, suppliers can be commoditized leaving consumers/users as a first order priority. By extension, this means that the most important factor determining success is the user experience: the best distributors/aggregators/market-makers win by providing the best experience, which earns them the most consumers/users, which attracts the most suppliers, which enhances the user experience in a virtuous cycle.What I was not explicit about — and really hadn’t fully considered, until I read Nathanson’s piece — is how directly this is linked to monetization. Netflix doesn’t just have more buying power because it has the most customers; it has the most pricing power as well. A better user experience — which Aggregators have a structural advantage in providing — is worth paying for! That, by extension, means that the Aggregator’s virtuous cycle isn’t only a function of having ever more subscribers, but also in the related capacity to charge each of those subscribers more; the advantage compounds.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.08: How To Train Your DroneDateFriday, February 21, 2025Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024←Grok 3, The Nvidia Shortcut, Competitive ImplicationsAn Interview with Manna Founder and CEO Bobby Healy About Drone Delivery→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The promisedSharp Tech/Sharp Chinacrossover episode is out, and it’s a doozy. Bill and I cover this week’s private enterprise symposium and Xi Jinping’s rapprochement with China’s tech companies, and the connection between xAI and DeepSeek. Then, we have an extended debate on the chip ban, including its potential long-term consequences, and whether or not a course correction is possible. Finally, we discuss why the situation surround Taiwan is worrisome, and whether Trump is looking to make a deal.I also need to issue a correction: inyesterday’s UpdateI said that Grok-3 was trained on 20,000 GPUs; in fact, the number of GPUs is not verified. I’m actually not sure where I got that number; I think it was from the Grok-2 reporting. I’ve seen mutters about the actual training run being on closer to 60,000 GPUs, but I have no idea if that is true. Regardless, this was a careless mistake, and I apologize.On to the Update:Encryption and the Uneasy CompromiseJohn Gruber and I discussed the U.K.’s demand for an encryption backdoor onyesterday’s episode of Dithering, where I recalled a point that I had made previously and should have brought upin my Update last week. It comes froman Update I wrote in January 2020about iCloudnotbeing encrypted:I actually think that Apple does an excellent job of striking that balance today. When it comes to the iPhone itself, Apple is the only entity that can make it truly secure; no individual can build their own secure enclave that sits at the root of iPhone security. Therefore, they are right to do so: everyone has access to encryption.From there it is possible to build a fully secure environment: use only encrypted communications, use encrypted backups to a computer secured by its own hardware-based authentication scheme, etc. Taking the slightly easier route, though — iCloud backups, Facebook messaging, etc. — means some degree of vulnerability that, let’s not forget, is sometimes justifiably leveraged. Law enforcement can get a warrant for those backups or chat logs, just as they can install a wire tap.Again, this isn’t going to stop determined bad actors, but as I noted, nothing is. The question is what of the rest, those that get swept up by the worst sort of communities, and who commit legitimate crimes: what should their defaults be?I should also note that I am skeptical that this philosophy is what actually undergirds Apple’s thinking. I suspect their reasoning is much more utilitarian: holding the key to iCloud backups keeps the FBI off of their back, and it lets them operate iCloud in China (remember, the keys are stored locally). It is the most pragmatic way to have their public privacy cake and eat it too.I think that whole Update is worth a re-visit, particularly the parts where I split up the warring factions on this issue into “Math Fatalists”, “Privacy Fundamentalists”, and “Law and Order”. The conclusion that I reached in the above excerpt, however, is that encryption should not be illegal — and Apple should not be compelled to put backdoors into iPhones — but it’s ok if the most convenient cloud complements to a user’s devices are not end-to-end encrypted; that’s a compromise position that gives each faction a bit of what they want, if not everything.What I think the U.K. would argue is that it is Apple that broke this uneasy compromise by offering Advanced Data Protection — which fully encrypts iCloud backups — even though it is off by default. In this light, the U.K. demanding that Advanced Data Encryption have a backdoor put in it is in fact demanding a restoration to that uneasy compromise position. And, given that I endorsed that state of affairs, why should I get worked up about this request?The answer goes back to another Apple privacy debate, in this case their proposal to do on-device scanning for Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM); I wrote inApple’s Mistake:The fundamental issue — and the first reason why I think Apple made a mistake here — is that there is a meaningful difference between capability and policy. One of the most powerful arguments in Apple’s favor in the2016 San Bernardino caseis that the company didn’t even have the means to break into the iPhone in question, and that to build the capability would open the company up to a multitude of requests that were far less pressing in nature, and weaken the company’s ability to stand up to foreign governments. In this case, though, Apple is building the capability, and the only thing holding the company back is policy.The connection to this case is probably obvious: the problem with mandating a backdoor into encryption is that using that backdoor is now a matter of policy instead of capability, above and beyond the long-term security risks that I focused on in my Update. That’s why I do still stand by my Update last week — the U.K. should not ask for this, and Apple should be willing to leave the country over it — but I do at least have more empathy for the position of the “Law and Order” faction and their sense that Apple is the one that undid the uneasy compromise.Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg, almost a month(!) ago:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high on Wednesday after the streaming giant reported its biggest quarterly subscriber gain in history, buoyed by its first major live sporting events and the return of Squid Game. The company added 18.9 million customers in the fourth quarter, according to a shareholder letter Tuesday. That was more than double what Wall Street expected and brought global subscribers at Netflix to more than 300 million. The company’s previous best was 15 million in the first quarter of 2020 — numbers driven by the onset of the coronavirus pandemic…This is the final time Netflix will report quarterly subscriber numbers. The company’s stock has historically risen and fallen based on customer additions, but management is trying to get investors to prioritize financial metrics like sales and profit. The company reported revenue grew 16% to $10.2 billion for the quarter, the biggest gain since late 2021, and said sales will grow faster than predicted in 2025.Netflix will boost sales by increasing prices in its home market. The company is raising prices in the US, Canada, Portugal and Argentina, with the most popular US plan going to $17.99 a month, an increase of $2.50. Netflix is also increasing the cost of its cheaper advertising-supported plan.There has been, needless to say, a lot going on the last month, and I missed the earnings for a few companies that I usually cover; I’ll explain why I wanted to come back to Netflix’s in a moment, but a few quick notes as long as I’m here:While I don’t think Netflix planned it this way, it is quite the flex to report record subscriber ads in the last quarter where they will report that number as a matter of course.I thought the reporting change was reasonable, but I also thought that part of the reason for the reporting change was because the password-sharing crackdown represented the last big growth surge. I guess not!Netflix executiveson the earnings callstrongly disagreed with an analyst who assumed that the Mike Tyson-Jake Paul boxing event and Christmas Day NFL games were the primary drivers of that subscriber growth, crediting them with only “a small minority of our total member acquisition in the quarter”; that said, executives also spoke very positively about the events and that they would do more.Netflix announced late last yearthat they had acquired the U.S. rights to the Women’s World Cup in 2027 and 2031; unsurprisingly, andin line with my Update a couple of weeks agoabout F1, Netflix is signaling that they plan on producing a host of accompanying content in the run-up to those events, seeking to capture not just the rights value but also the cultural value.That Update, I should note, was in the context of F1, where I expressed skepticism that Netflix would acquire the rights given that they are U.S. only; these soccer rights, however, are U.S.-only as well, and Netflix still sees the value, so I guess us F1 fans will have to stay tuned.The Aggregator’s Compounding AdvantageNow we get to the reason I wanted to go back a month to these earnings. Robert Fishman ofMoffettNathansonreleased a research report last week entitled “U.S. Media: Streaming Scale Matters.” Much of it reads like a confirmation of my thesis thatNetflix is in fact an Aggregator:The oft-held premise, at least in the early days of the streaming wars, was that you needed to invest massively in content to drive engagement and scale your platform. Today, Netflix spends more on DTC-only content than any other company, exceeding $15 billion in global content amortization in 2024. That is nearly $7 billion more than the second largest DTC spender in Disney, which expensed $8.6 billion in DTC programming amortization in FY 2024. It is also nearly equal to the DTC expenses of WBD, NBCU, and Paramount combined.As with most businesses, there are massive benefits to scale in streaming. Thus, it should come as no surprise that Netflix manages to sustain its industry-leading levels of content spending through its significant lead in global scale, which enables it to spread the costs over a bigger base. While Netflix spends far more on DTC content than any other company, when we look at content spend per subscriber, we see that Netflix is right in line with Disney and WBD, and our forecast sees this ratio holding relatively steady over the next three years (see Exhibit 11). Peacock and Paramountt, on the other hand, currently spend significantly more than Netflix on a per subscriber basis, in part because their platforms index more towards the U.S. (or in Peacock’s case, exclusively to the U.S.) which is one of the more expensive markets in which to operate, and in part thanks to both platform’s heavy focus on sports. The ultimate driver, though, is lack of scale.Because Netflix has more subscribers to spread its content spending across, it can afford to spend more on content. Because it has more content, it drives better engagement, leading to more subscribers and possibly better pricing power in a virtuous cycle that has played out quite well for the company to date.So far, so good, and very much in line with my expectations. I promise, however, I’m not here for a victory tour. Rather, it was Fishman’s next point that I think is worth calling out:Yet, another underappreciated aspect is this has enabled Netflix, and to a lesser extent Disney, to undercut its competitors in terms of monetization. Netflix in 2024 generated less revenue per hour viewed in the U.S. than any other major SVOD platform at just $0.36, of which only $0.34 came out of its users’ pockets in the form of subscription fees. U.S. Disney+ subscribers paid $0.40 in 2024 for each hour of viewing (see Exhibit 12).Yes, it may be an obvious point that a platform with a larger viewership base to spread its revenue across will naturally have lower revenue per hour, but that is also key to understanding Netflix’s success and why its competitors have and will continue to struggle to catch up: Netflix delivers great value. The average Paramount+ subscriber is paying double in subscription fees for each hour of viewing pleasure compared to the average Netflix subscriber in the U.S.This makes total sense, and is a worthy extension of Aggregation Theory. Specifically, while more subscribers means that Netflix can spend more on content, thus attracting more subscribers, more content also means that Netflix can drive more engagement on a per-customer basis — there’s just more to watch! This, in Netflix’s case, provides “permission” to raise prices; Co-CEO Greg Peters said on the recent earnings call the same concept Netflix executives espouse on every earnings call:Our pricing philosophy hasn’t changed. It’s pretty much the same as we’ve talked about for the last several years. Of course, we look to continue to provide more value to our members, seeking to wisely invest to increase the variety and quality of our entertainment offering. And then we listen to those members. We listen for signals like engagement, retention, acquisition. There’s more secondary signals as well, all to tell us when we’ve achieved that increase in value. And when we’ve done that, then we ask them to pay a bit more to keep that virtuous cycle going.This principle extends to non-subscription businesses as well; consider a social network: the more compelling the content, the more time users spend, which means the more ads they can see. This isn’t, to be fair to me, exactly a novel insight; I said inthe original Aggregation Theory Article:This has fundamentally changed the plane of competition: no longer do distributors compete based upon exclusive supplier relationships, with consumers/users an afterthought. Instead, suppliers can be commoditized leaving consumers/users as a first order priority. By extension, this means that the most important factor determining success is the user experience: the best distributors/aggregators/market-makers win by providing the best experience, which earns them the most consumers/users, which attracts the most suppliers, which enhances the user experience in a virtuous cycle.What I was not explicit about — and really hadn’t fully considered, until I read Nathanson’s piece — is how directly this is linked to monetization. Netflix doesn’t just have more buying power because it has the most customers; it has the most pricing power as well. A better user experience — which Aggregators have a structural advantage in providing — is worth paying for! That, by extension, means that the Aggregator’s virtuous cycle isn’t only a function of having ever more subscribers, but also in the related capacity to charge each of those subscribers more; the advantage compounds.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email The promisedSharp Tech/Sharp Chinacrossover episode is out, and it’s a doozy. Bill and I cover this week’s private enterprise symposium and Xi Jinping’s rapprochement with China’s tech companies, and the connection between xAI and DeepSeek. Then, we have an extended debate on the chip ban, including its potential long-term consequences, and whether or not a course correction is possible. Finally, we discuss why the situation surround Taiwan is worrisome, and whether Trump is looking to make a deal. I also need to issue a correction: inyesterday’s UpdateI said that Grok-3 was trained on 20,000 GPUs; in fact, the number of GPUs is not verified. I’m actually not sure where I got that number; I think it was from the Grok-2 reporting. I’ve seen mutters about the actual training run being on closer to 60,000 GPUs, but I have no idea if that is true. Regardless, this was a careless mistake, and I apologize. John Gruber and I discussed the U.K.’s demand for an encryption backdoor onyesterday’s episode of Dithering, where I recalled a point that I had made previously and should have brought upin my Update last week. It comes froman Update I wrote in January 2020about iCloudnotbeing encrypted: I actually think that Apple does an excellent job of striking that balance today. When it comes to the iPhone itself, Apple is the only entity that can make it truly secure; no individual can build their own secure enclave that sits at the root of iPhone security. Therefore, they are right to do so: everyone has access to encryption. From there it is possible to build a fully secure environment: use only encrypted communications, use encrypted backups to a computer secured by its own hardware-based authentication scheme, etc. Taking the slightly easier route, though — iCloud backups, Facebook messaging, etc. — means some degree of vulnerability that, let’s not forget, is sometimes justifiably leveraged. Law enforcement can get a warrant for those backups or chat logs, just as they can install a wire tap. Again, this isn’t going to stop determined bad actors, but as I noted, nothing is. The question is what of the rest, those that get swept up by the worst sort of communities, and who commit legitimate crimes: what should their defaults be? I should also note that I am skeptical that this philosophy is what actually undergirds Apple’s thinking. I suspect their reasoning is much more utilitarian: holding the key to iCloud backups keeps the FBI off of their back, and it lets them operate iCloud in China (remember, the keys are stored locally). It is the most pragmatic way to have their public privacy cake and eat it too. I think that whole Update is worth a re-visit, particularly the parts where I split up the warring factions on this issue into “Math Fatalists”, “Privacy Fundamentalists”, and “Law and Order”. The conclusion that I reached in the above excerpt, however, is that encryption should not be illegal — and Apple should not be compelled to put backdoors into iPhones — but it’s ok if the most convenient cloud complements to a user’s devices are not end-to-end encrypted; that’s a compromise position that gives each faction a bit of what they want, if not everything. What I think the U.K. would argue is that it is Apple that broke this uneasy compromise by offering Advanced Data Protection — which fully encrypts iCloud backups — even though it is off by default. In this light, the U.K. demanding that Advanced Data Encryption have a backdoor put in it is in fact demanding a restoration to that uneasy compromise position. And, given that I endorsed that state of affairs, why should I get worked up about this request? The fundamental issue — and the first reason why I think Apple made a mistake here — is that there is a meaningful difference between capability and policy. One of the most powerful arguments in Apple’s favor in the2016 San Bernardino caseis that the company didn’t even have the means to break into the iPhone in question, and that to build the capability would open the company up to a multitude of requests that were far less pressing in nature, and weaken the company’s ability to stand up to foreign governments. In this case, though, Apple is building the capability, and the only thing holding the company back is policy. The connection to this case is probably obvious: the problem with mandating a backdoor into encryption is that using that backdoor is now a matter of policy instead of capability, above and beyond the long-term security risks that I focused on in my Update. That’s why I do still stand by my Update last week — the U.K. should not ask for this, and Apple should be willing to leave the country over it — but I do at least have more empathy for the position of the “Law and Order” faction and their sense that Apple is the one that undid the uneasy compromise. Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high on Wednesday after the streaming giant reported its biggest quarterly subscriber gain in history, buoyed by its first major live sporting events and the return of Squid Game. The company added 18.9 million customers in the fourth quarter, according to a shareholder letter Tuesday. That was more than double what Wall Street expected and brought global subscribers at Netflix to more than 300 million. The company’s previous best was 15 million in the first quarter of 2020 — numbers driven by the onset of the coronavirus pandemic… This is the final time Netflix will report quarterly subscriber numbers. The company’s stock has historically risen and fallen based on customer additions, but management is trying to get investors to prioritize financial metrics like sales and profit. The company reported revenue grew 16% to $10.2 billion for the quarter, the biggest gain since late 2021, and said sales will grow faster than predicted in 2025. Netflix will boost sales by increasing prices in its home market. The company is raising prices in the US, Canada, Portugal and Argentina, with the most popular US plan going to $17.99 a month, an increase of $2.50. Netflix is also increasing the cost of its cheaper advertising-supported plan. There has been, needless to say, a lot going on the last month, and I missed the earnings for a few companies that I usually cover; I’ll explain why I wanted to come back to Netflix’s in a moment, but a few quick notes as long as I’m here: That Update, I should note, was in the context of F1, where I expressed skepticism that Netflix would acquire the rights given that they are U.S. only; these soccer rights, however, are U.S.-only as well, and Netflix still sees the value, so I guess us F1 fans will have to stay tuned. Now we get to the reason I wanted to go back a month to these earnings. Robert Fishman ofMoffettNathansonreleased a research report last week entitled “U.S. Media: Streaming Scale Matters.” Much of it reads like a confirmation of my thesis thatNetflix is in fact an Aggregator: The oft-held premise, at least in the early days of the streaming wars, was that you needed to invest massively in content to drive engagement and scale your platform. Today, Netflix spends more on DTC-only content than any other company, exceeding $15 billion in global content amortization in 2024. That is nearly $7 billion more than the second largest DTC spender in Disney, which expensed $8.6 billion in DTC programming amortization in FY 2024. It is also nearly equal to the DTC expenses of WBD, NBCU, and Paramount combined. As with most businesses, there are massive benefits to scale in streaming. Thus, it should come as no surprise that Netflix manages to sustain its industry-leading levels of content spending through its significant lead in global scale, which enables it to spread the costs over a bigger base. While Netflix spends far more on DTC content than any other company, when we look at content spend per subscriber, we see that Netflix is right in line with Disney and WBD, and our forecast sees this ratio holding relatively steady over the next three years (see Exhibit 11). Peacock and Paramountt, on the other hand, currently spend significantly more than Netflix on a per subscriber basis, in part because their platforms index more towards the U.S. (or in Peacock’s case, exclusively to the U.S.) which is one of the more expensive markets in which to operate, and in part thanks to both platform’s heavy focus on sports. The ultimate driver, though, is lack of scale. Because Netflix has more subscribers to spread its content spending across, it can afford to spend more on content. Because it has more content, it drives better engagement, leading to more subscribers and possibly better pricing power in a virtuous cycle that has played out quite well for the company to date. Yet, another underappreciated aspect is this has enabled Netflix, and to a lesser extent Disney, to undercut its competitors in terms of monetization. Netflix in 2024 generated less revenue per hour viewed in the U.S. than any other major SVOD platform at just $0.36, of which only $0.34 came out of its users’ pockets in the form of subscription fees. U.S. Disney+ subscribers paid $0.40 in 2024 for each hour of viewing (see Exhibit 12). Yes, it may be an obvious point that a platform with a larger viewership base to spread its revenue across will naturally have lower revenue per hour, but that is also key to understanding Netflix’s success and why its competitors have and will continue to struggle to catch up: Netflix delivers great value. The average Paramount+ subscriber is paying double in subscription fees for each hour of viewing pleasure compared to the average Netflix subscriber in the U.S. This makes total sense, and is a worthy extension of Aggregation Theory. Specifically, while more subscribers means that Netflix can spend more on content, thus attracting more subscribers, more content also means that Netflix can drive more engagement on a per-customer basis — there’s just more to watch! This, in Netflix’s case, provides “permission” to raise prices; Co-CEO Greg Peters said on the recent earnings call the same concept Netflix executives espouse on every earnings call: Our pricing philosophy hasn’t changed. It’s pretty much the same as we’ve talked about for the last several years. Of course, we look to continue to provide more value to our members, seeking to wisely invest to increase the variety and quality of our entertainment offering. And then we listen to those members. We listen for signals like engagement, retention, acquisition. There’s more secondary signals as well, all to tell us when we’ve achieved that increase in value. And when we’ve done that, then we ask them to pay a bit more to keep that virtuous cycle going. This principle extends to non-subscription businesses as well; consider a social network: the more compelling the content, the more time users spend, which means the more ads they can see. This isn’t, to be fair to me, exactly a novel insight; I said inthe original Aggregation Theory Article: This has fundamentally changed the plane of competition: no longer do distributors compete based upon exclusive supplier relationships, with consumers/users an afterthought. Instead, suppliers can be commoditized leaving consumers/users as a first order priority. By extension, this means that the most important factor determining success is the user experience: the best distributors/aggregators/market-makers win by providing the best experience, which earns them the most consumers/users, which attracts the most suppliers, which enhances the user experience in a virtuous cycle. What I was not explicit about — and really hadn’t fully considered, until I read Nathanson’s piece — is how directly this is linked to monetization. Netflix doesn’t just have more buying power because it has the most customers; it has the most pricing power as well. A better user experience — which Aggregators have a structural advantage in providing — is worth paying for! That, by extension, means that the Aggregator’s virtuous cycle isn’t only a function of having ever more subscribers, but also in the related capacity to charge each of those subscribers more; the advantage compounds. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025