# [PODCAST] Microsoft Build, Copilot Platforms, A Note on Recall

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/microsoft-build-copilot-platforms-a-note-on-recall/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.FuPg9cBTILKeVz5l8-6mkgHdh1UJ2KxVxFX_O-B4gt2SIswvAdPAJGtV8j_Xk-3-ajlruwnaz0pG9a1M36XyX1WLGexcS7rm_Tn1yLFcXZM-K5lcH8zaCUSIr84WlhcaWqSIw6pnf3piyiEirSlNTrUm6LhEn5R8wK5KUEGPiGNAdU51aQkH9tN6FYz2jyscuXxuQi_fo3mXlaT08s0IULEBRPc6YYZimKkno3NS6kMeOxM6wBaZZfCRUY6xDWP0-LJ4f_8l_Gz8G9OgjfdH7pZTcYP9UT3vflzsVceQTTcBN33Y2jPCpwxu9IyrSedWHKGqSGk-r-R6ChkNu10pJw
**Atlas ID**: 229750
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.968577

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMicrosoft Build, Copilot Platforms, A Note on RecallWednesday, May 22, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are progressing to the conference finals, and theGreatest of All Talkhas you covered. Thelatest episodewas a great follow-up to a very enjoyable second round, particularly that Nuggets-Wolves series I told you all to watch!Also, this Monday is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:Microsoft BuildFrom theMicrosoft Blog:Groundbreaking advances in AI are having a profound impact on Microsoft and on the developers using our technology to improve efficiency, enhance customer experiences and make new breakthroughs.Over the past year, we’ve built Microsoft Copilot and released more than 150 updates to it, and we’ve developed the Copilot stack, which takes everything we’ve learned so far and lets developers build their own copilots. In addition, over the past two years, GitHub Copilot has become the most widely adopted AI developer tool, with 1.8 million paid subscribers. And just a day ago, we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest, most AI-ready PCs ever built.We are the industry leader in AI, and that’s why, as we begin our flagship event for developers, Microsoft Build, there’s one question on everyone’s mind: What’s next?There is a phrase that has been floating around for the last couple of years: the “AI Platform Shift”. What, though, does that mean? Is AI a platform? If so, what kind of platform? Does it have network effects? Is there an API? Are there moats?Yesterday’sMicrosoft Build keynotecovered a lot of ground, but for me the biggest moment of clarity in terms of answering those questions came early on in CEO Satya Nadella’s presentation:You know when I think about what progress we’ve made since last time we were here at Build, we’ve built really three platforms: the first is Microsoft Copilot, which is your everyday companion. It puts knowledge and expertise at your fingertips, helps you act on it, and we’ve built a Copilot stack so that you can build your AI applications and solutions and experiences, and just yesterday we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest AI-first PCs ever built.I wrote about Copilot+ PCs yesterday, and it’s a useful place to start when it comes to thinking about what exactly is a platform. It used to be that computers were fully integrated from the chip to the operating system to applications — think the IBM System/360. That wasn’t really a platform, but rather a product, although IBM did, under antitrust pressure, eventually open up the System/360 to 3rd-party applications.The IBM PC was different: it had an Intel x86 processor and the DOS operating system from Microsoft, which supported 3rd-party applications from the beginning. Now both Intel and Microsoft would argue that they had a platform, and both have a point. x86 chips weren’t tied to Windows; indeed, the most important operating system for x86 today is arguably Linux. Still, it is the operating system part that defined what we think of as a platform: DOS (and Windows, which was DOS-compatible) was the level of abstraction in the PC stack on which the greatest variety of development happened.One of the benefits of Windows as a platform is that it actually helped developers better take advantage of advances in Intel’s processors, which progressed rapidly throughout the 80s and 90s. Developers could build applications with the knowledge that the processors that ran their applications would get much faster, without having to worry about the specifics; DOS/Windows provided a stable target with a reliable API, and it fell on Microsoft to make sure that DOS/Windows worked with Intel’s latest releases. That, by extension, meant that Intel was free to pursue Moore’s Law, and so deliver on developers’ expectations of ever faster computers.Fast forward to yesterday’s keynote, and Nadella made the case that Moore’s Law is being replaced by Scaling Laws for AI:If you think about it, even going all the way back to the beginning of modern computing, say 70 years ago, there have been two real dreams we’ve had: first, can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers? And second, in a world where we have these ever-increasing information of people, places, and things, as you digitize more artifacts of people, places, and things, and you have more information, can computers help us reason, plan, and act more effectively on all of that information. Those are the two dreams we’ve had for the last 70+ years, and here we are: I think that we have real breakthroughs on both fronts.The core underlying force, one of the questions I always ask myself is, ok, this is great, this is maybe the golden age of systems, what’s really driving it? I always come back to these scaling laws, just like Moore’s Law helped drive the information revolution, these scaling laws of DNN’s — along with the model infrastructure, interesting ways to use data, generate data — are really driving this intelligence revolution. You could say Moore’s Law was probably more stable in the sense that it was scaling at maybe 15 months, 18 months, we now have these things that are scaling every 6 months, or doubling every 6 months.Those scaling laws make for a real lack of stability. The most obvious example are the so-called “GPT wrappers” that add some sort of capability to a large language model, only to be obviated six months later by the model incorporating that capability directly. The analogy to Moore’s Law might be developers who were obsessed with optimization and wringing performance out of applications running on, say, the 286 processor, only to have the 386 come along and make all of that optimization effort fairly pointless. The developers who were product focused and built applications for actual end users were much better off: Intel would solve their performance problems for them, and Windows would make sure they could take advantage of those speed-ups.That, by extension, gets at the AI platform question. Microsoft is making the case that models are not platforms; they are — at least in this analogy — processors. To the extent they are right, that means that for most developers, building directly on top of models may be a bit of a fool’s errand: you run the risk of spending most of your time simply trying to adjust to and incorporate model improvements, instead of building features for end users. What is needed is an additional layer of abstraction that is much more stable and incorporates model improvements for you, and the overarching message at Build is that that additional layer of abstraction will be branded “Copilot”.Copilot PlatformsLast fall Nadella wrote in his annualletter to shareholders:Amid this transformation, our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more remains constant. As a company, we believe we can be the democratizing force for this new generation of technology and the opportunity it will help unlock for every country, community, and individual, while mitigating its risks…To build on this progress, we remain convicted on three things: First, we will maintain our lead as the top commercial cloud while innovating in consumer categories, from gaming to professional social networks. Second, because we know that maximum enterprise value gets created during platform shifts like this one, we will invest to accelerate our lead in AI by infusing this technology across every layer of the tech stack. And, finally, we will continue to drive operating leverage, aligning our cost structure with our revenue growth.First off, providing stability on top of technological changes really is valuable, and yes, “empower(s) every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.” DOS/Windows became a massive platform because a massive platform was exactly what was needed to realize and capture the value being generated by Intel.Second, most of the activity in AI currently is downstream of the commercial cloud. Indeed, that may prove to be the end state in terms of AI value capture: models become a commodity, the primary business model is inference consumption, which is to say that the competitive landscape remains largely the same based on data gravity.Third, such an end state would not represent a “platform shift”, which is to say that “maximum enterprise value” would not be created for really anyone. That is why the Copilots are a big deal: they are Microsoft’s bid to leverage AI into new platforms owned by Microsoft.With that in mind, go back to this slide from the video above:Again, the PC example is the easiest to understand: instead of having to incorporate your own model in an application, Windows will have a variety of models built-in that you can access via API; that same API will naturally extend to models running in the cloud. All of those models can be updated and become smarter and the developer will get those improvements for free, because the API will remain stable.The analogy for “Microsoft Copilot” is Microsoft Teams. Teams doesn’t just provide a chat interface; it is an operating system for the cloud with defined places for developers to integrate their applications in a place that is easily discoverable by users. Similarly, developers can build Copilot extensions that are usable and discoverable by users within Copilot. Copilot itself, meanwhile, is not just built into Windows and Microsoft’s web apps, but is also an app in its own right across platforms like iOS and Android.That last circle, the Copilot stack, is, I think, a recognition of where Teams and Microsoft’s broader attempts to build an OS for the cloud fell short. The biggest problem is thatMicrosoft was late to the entire space, which not only meant that most SaaS apps were built on AWS, but that Microsoft had to try and convince developers to build integrations into their products after the fact; that effort often left developers feeling cold, as they were reduced to a tab in Teams.When it comes to AI, though, Microsoft has a credible claim to be early; at a minimum it is hustling to provide a solution that makes it easy for developers to build their own AI apps, which by definition means those apps are built on Azure. It is also much easier to ensure those applications smoothly integrate with the broader Microsoft ecosystem.So will any of this work? The answer, I think, will depend on how you think about the starting point. You can definitely imagine a lot of developers incorporating Windows’ AI features, but that is because they already build Windows apps, and because Windows already has plenty of end users. If Windows doesn’t grow, then all of this AI stuff will have simply been an investment in maintaining share.It’s a similar story for Microsoft Copilot. Microsoft Copilot, like Teams before it, gets its biggest advantage from incorporating seamlessly into all of a company’s existing Microsoft apps and associated data. Unlike Teams, though, Copilot is a separate SKU that costs money; that means that simply driving adoption amongst Microsoft’s existing user base is in fact a win, not simply treading water.Maybe the most interesting question is around the Copilot stack. This, more than anything, is the real bid to be the new Windows: a stable layer of abstraction on top of rapidly shifting technology that generates “maximum enterprise value”. Even here, though, the importance of data may mean that the countours of the market are already defined by the clouds that exist.A Note on RecallFromThe Verge:Microsoft’s launching Recall for Copilot Plus PCs, a new Windows 11 tool that keeps track of everything you see and do on your computer and, in return, gives you the ability to search and retrieve anything you’ve done on the device.The scope of Recall, which Microsoft has internally called AI Explorer, is incredibly vast — it includes logging things you do in apps, tracking communications in live meetings, remembering all websites you’ve visited for research, and more. All you need to do is perform a “Recall” action, which is like an AI-powered search, and it’ll present a snapshot of that period of time that gives you context of the memory.As a matter of fact, everything you do on the PC appears on an explorable timeline you can scroll through. You can also search live meetings and videos thanks to Live Captions, which transcribes and even translates speech.Microsoft is, understandably, emphasizing that Recall will remain local and private; no one will have access to your data other than you, and even then, only on your device. I believe them!What is interesting to consider, though, is the longer-term implications of this capability existing. Microsoft, broadly speaking, has developed the ability to understand what is happening on a computer at the graphical subsystem level; that, by extension, means that Microsoft has the means to develop large models that know how to use computers via the GUI.I talked about this conceptearlier this yearin the context of the Rabbit R1:The idea is that Rabbit has created what they call a “Large Action Model” which is trained on graphical user interfaces to understand their different components, what buttons do, how content is organized on a website, etc. What that means is that when a user makes a request — “Play Taylor Swift” — the cloud application actually navigates the Spotify interface (assuming you have logged in via OAuth on your “Rabbit Hole” website) and plays Taylor Swift.Agent capability and sustainability are, needless to say, an open question, particularly in these early days. What is so enticing about this approach, though, is that it provides the promise of massive compatibility without having to actually recruit developers to your platform.Nadella in one of the clips above asked, “Can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers?”, and a big part of the excitement about large language models and speech interfaces is that we can simply talk with a computer like we can anything else. Remember, though,I’ve previously made the case that large language models are something different than computers:The fact this works so well is itself a testament to what Assistant AI’s are, and are not: they are not computing as we have previously understood it; they are shockingly human in their way of “thinking” and communicating. And frankly, I would have had a hard time solving those three questions as well — that’s what computers are for! And now ChatGPT has a computer of its own.That Article was about ChatGPT plugins, and how a probabilistic model would be an interface for deterministic computing. In this case, what Recall portends is a way in which a large model can achieve access to every Windows GUI application ever, not by having developers build in integrations, but simply by understanding how to navigate pre-existing user interfaces.Again, to be clear, Recall is not this product, but when this product is built I suspect it will work a lot better than Rabbit’s “Large Action Model”, in no small part because Microsoft owns the platform on which those applications run; indeed, that is very much the theme of this Update: the “AI platform shift” may, in the end, simply be an “AI platform extension” forthe companies that survived the beginning.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWindows and the AI Platform ShiftDateWednesday, May 24, 2023The Cost of DevelopersDateTuesday, June 5, 2018Thin PlatformsDateTuesday, May 31, 2022←Windows ReturnsInterviews with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and CTO Kevin Scott About the AI Platform Shift→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Microsoft Build, Copilot Platforms, A Note on RecallWednesday, May 22, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are progressing to the conference finals, and theGreatest of All Talkhas you covered. Thelatest episodewas a great follow-up to a very enjoyable second round, particularly that Nuggets-Wolves series I told you all to watch!Also, this Monday is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:Microsoft BuildFrom theMicrosoft Blog:Groundbreaking advances in AI are having a profound impact on Microsoft and on the developers using our technology to improve efficiency, enhance customer experiences and make new breakthroughs.Over the past year, we’ve built Microsoft Copilot and released more than 150 updates to it, and we’ve developed the Copilot stack, which takes everything we’ve learned so far and lets developers build their own copilots. In addition, over the past two years, GitHub Copilot has become the most widely adopted AI developer tool, with 1.8 million paid subscribers. And just a day ago, we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest, most AI-ready PCs ever built.We are the industry leader in AI, and that’s why, as we begin our flagship event for developers, Microsoft Build, there’s one question on everyone’s mind: What’s next?There is a phrase that has been floating around for the last couple of years: the “AI Platform Shift”. What, though, does that mean? Is AI a platform? If so, what kind of platform? Does it have network effects? Is there an API? Are there moats?Yesterday’sMicrosoft Build keynotecovered a lot of ground, but for me the biggest moment of clarity in terms of answering those questions came early on in CEO Satya Nadella’s presentation:You know when I think about what progress we’ve made since last time we were here at Build, we’ve built really three platforms: the first is Microsoft Copilot, which is your everyday companion. It puts knowledge and expertise at your fingertips, helps you act on it, and we’ve built a Copilot stack so that you can build your AI applications and solutions and experiences, and just yesterday we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest AI-first PCs ever built.I wrote about Copilot+ PCs yesterday, and it’s a useful place to start when it comes to thinking about what exactly is a platform. It used to be that computers were fully integrated from the chip to the operating system to applications — think the IBM System/360. That wasn’t really a platform, but rather a product, although IBM did, under antitrust pressure, eventually open up the System/360 to 3rd-party applications.The IBM PC was different: it had an Intel x86 processor and the DOS operating system from Microsoft, which supported 3rd-party applications from the beginning. Now both Intel and Microsoft would argue that they had a platform, and both have a point. x86 chips weren’t tied to Windows; indeed, the most important operating system for x86 today is arguably Linux. Still, it is the operating system part that defined what we think of as a platform: DOS (and Windows, which was DOS-compatible) was the level of abstraction in the PC stack on which the greatest variety of development happened.One of the benefits of Windows as a platform is that it actually helped developers better take advantage of advances in Intel’s processors, which progressed rapidly throughout the 80s and 90s. Developers could build applications with the knowledge that the processors that ran their applications would get much faster, without having to worry about the specifics; DOS/Windows provided a stable target with a reliable API, and it fell on Microsoft to make sure that DOS/Windows worked with Intel’s latest releases. That, by extension, meant that Intel was free to pursue Moore’s Law, and so deliver on developers’ expectations of ever faster computers.Fast forward to yesterday’s keynote, and Nadella made the case that Moore’s Law is being replaced by Scaling Laws for AI:If you think about it, even going all the way back to the beginning of modern computing, say 70 years ago, there have been two real dreams we’ve had: first, can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers? And second, in a world where we have these ever-increasing information of people, places, and things, as you digitize more artifacts of people, places, and things, and you have more information, can computers help us reason, plan, and act more effectively on all of that information. Those are the two dreams we’ve had for the last 70+ years, and here we are: I think that we have real breakthroughs on both fronts.The core underlying force, one of the questions I always ask myself is, ok, this is great, this is maybe the golden age of systems, what’s really driving it? I always come back to these scaling laws, just like Moore’s Law helped drive the information revolution, these scaling laws of DNN’s — along with the model infrastructure, interesting ways to use data, generate data — are really driving this intelligence revolution. You could say Moore’s Law was probably more stable in the sense that it was scaling at maybe 15 months, 18 months, we now have these things that are scaling every 6 months, or doubling every 6 months.Those scaling laws make for a real lack of stability. The most obvious example are the so-called “GPT wrappers” that add some sort of capability to a large language model, only to be obviated six months later by the model incorporating that capability directly. The analogy to Moore’s Law might be developers who were obsessed with optimization and wringing performance out of applications running on, say, the 286 processor, only to have the 386 come along and make all of that optimization effort fairly pointless. The developers who were product focused and built applications for actual end users were much better off: Intel would solve their performance problems for them, and Windows would make sure they could take advantage of those speed-ups.That, by extension, gets at the AI platform question. Microsoft is making the case that models are not platforms; they are — at least in this analogy — processors. To the extent they are right, that means that for most developers, building directly on top of models may be a bit of a fool’s errand: you run the risk of spending most of your time simply trying to adjust to and incorporate model improvements, instead of building features for end users. What is needed is an additional layer of abstraction that is much more stable and incorporates model improvements for you, and the overarching message at Build is that that additional layer of abstraction will be branded “Copilot”.Copilot PlatformsLast fall Nadella wrote in his annualletter to shareholders:Amid this transformation, our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more remains constant. As a company, we believe we can be the democratizing force for this new generation of technology and the opportunity it will help unlock for every country, community, and individual, while mitigating its risks…To build on this progress, we remain convicted on three things: First, we will maintain our lead as the top commercial cloud while innovating in consumer categories, from gaming to professional social networks. Second, because we know that maximum enterprise value gets created during platform shifts like this one, we will invest to accelerate our lead in AI by infusing this technology across every layer of the tech stack. And, finally, we will continue to drive operating leverage, aligning our cost structure with our revenue growth.First off, providing stability on top of technological changes really is valuable, and yes, “empower(s) every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.” DOS/Windows became a massive platform because a massive platform was exactly what was needed to realize and capture the value being generated by Intel.Second, most of the activity in AI currently is downstream of the commercial cloud. Indeed, that may prove to be the end state in terms of AI value capture: models become a commodity, the primary business model is inference consumption, which is to say that the competitive landscape remains largely the same based on data gravity.Third, such an end state would not represent a “platform shift”, which is to say that “maximum enterprise value” would not be created for really anyone. That is why the Copilots are a big deal: they are Microsoft’s bid to leverage AI into new platforms owned by Microsoft.With that in mind, go back to this slide from the video above:Again, the PC example is the easiest to understand: instead of having to incorporate your own model in an application, Windows will have a variety of models built-in that you can access via API; that same API will naturally extend to models running in the cloud. All of those models can be updated and become smarter and the developer will get those improvements for free, because the API will remain stable.The analogy for “Microsoft Copilot” is Microsoft Teams. Teams doesn’t just provide a chat interface; it is an operating system for the cloud with defined places for developers to integrate their applications in a place that is easily discoverable by users. Similarly, developers can build Copilot extensions that are usable and discoverable by users within Copilot. Copilot itself, meanwhile, is not just built into Windows and Microsoft’s web apps, but is also an app in its own right across platforms like iOS and Android.That last circle, the Copilot stack, is, I think, a recognition of where Teams and Microsoft’s broader attempts to build an OS for the cloud fell short. The biggest problem is thatMicrosoft was late to the entire space, which not only meant that most SaaS apps were built on AWS, but that Microsoft had to try and convince developers to build integrations into their products after the fact; that effort often left developers feeling cold, as they were reduced to a tab in Teams.When it comes to AI, though, Microsoft has a credible claim to be early; at a minimum it is hustling to provide a solution that makes it easy for developers to build their own AI apps, which by definition means those apps are built on Azure. It is also much easier to ensure those applications smoothly integrate with the broader Microsoft ecosystem.So will any of this work? The answer, I think, will depend on how you think about the starting point. You can definitely imagine a lot of developers incorporating Windows’ AI features, but that is because they already build Windows apps, and because Windows already has plenty of end users. If Windows doesn’t grow, then all of this AI stuff will have simply been an investment in maintaining share.It’s a similar story for Microsoft Copilot. Microsoft Copilot, like Teams before it, gets its biggest advantage from incorporating seamlessly into all of a company’s existing Microsoft apps and associated data. Unlike Teams, though, Copilot is a separate SKU that costs money; that means that simply driving adoption amongst Microsoft’s existing user base is in fact a win, not simply treading water.Maybe the most interesting question is around the Copilot stack. This, more than anything, is the real bid to be the new Windows: a stable layer of abstraction on top of rapidly shifting technology that generates “maximum enterprise value”. Even here, though, the importance of data may mean that the countours of the market are already defined by the clouds that exist.A Note on RecallFromThe Verge:Microsoft’s launching Recall for Copilot Plus PCs, a new Windows 11 tool that keeps track of everything you see and do on your computer and, in return, gives you the ability to search and retrieve anything you’ve done on the device.The scope of Recall, which Microsoft has internally called AI Explorer, is incredibly vast — it includes logging things you do in apps, tracking communications in live meetings, remembering all websites you’ve visited for research, and more. All you need to do is perform a “Recall” action, which is like an AI-powered search, and it’ll present a snapshot of that period of time that gives you context of the memory.As a matter of fact, everything you do on the PC appears on an explorable timeline you can scroll through. You can also search live meetings and videos thanks to Live Captions, which transcribes and even translates speech.Microsoft is, understandably, emphasizing that Recall will remain local and private; no one will have access to your data other than you, and even then, only on your device. I believe them!What is interesting to consider, though, is the longer-term implications of this capability existing. Microsoft, broadly speaking, has developed the ability to understand what is happening on a computer at the graphical subsystem level; that, by extension, means that Microsoft has the means to develop large models that know how to use computers via the GUI.I talked about this conceptearlier this yearin the context of the Rabbit R1:The idea is that Rabbit has created what they call a “Large Action Model” which is trained on graphical user interfaces to understand their different components, what buttons do, how content is organized on a website, etc. What that means is that when a user makes a request — “Play Taylor Swift” — the cloud application actually navigates the Spotify interface (assuming you have logged in via OAuth on your “Rabbit Hole” website) and plays Taylor Swift.Agent capability and sustainability are, needless to say, an open question, particularly in these early days. What is so enticing about this approach, though, is that it provides the promise of massive compatibility without having to actually recruit developers to your platform.Nadella in one of the clips above asked, “Can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers?”, and a big part of the excitement about large language models and speech interfaces is that we can simply talk with a computer like we can anything else. Remember, though,I’ve previously made the case that large language models are something different than computers:The fact this works so well is itself a testament to what Assistant AI’s are, and are not: they are not computing as we have previously understood it; they are shockingly human in their way of “thinking” and communicating. And frankly, I would have had a hard time solving those three questions as well — that’s what computers are for! And now ChatGPT has a computer of its own.That Article was about ChatGPT plugins, and how a probabilistic model would be an interface for deterministic computing. In this case, what Recall portends is a way in which a large model can achieve access to every Windows GUI application ever, not by having developers build in integrations, but simply by understanding how to navigate pre-existing user interfaces.Again, to be clear, Recall is not this product, but when this product is built I suspect it will work a lot better than Rabbit’s “Large Action Model”, in no small part because Microsoft owns the platform on which those applications run; indeed, that is very much the theme of this Update: the “AI platform shift” may, in the end, simply be an “AI platform extension” forthe companies that survived the beginning.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWindows and the AI Platform ShiftDateWednesday, May 24, 2023The Cost of DevelopersDateTuesday, June 5, 2018Thin PlatformsDateTuesday, May 31, 2022←Windows ReturnsInterviews with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and CTO Kevin Scott About the AI Platform Shift→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Microsoft Build, Copilot Platforms, A Note on RecallWednesday, May 22, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are progressing to the conference finals, and theGreatest of All Talkhas you covered. Thelatest episodewas a great follow-up to a very enjoyable second round, particularly that Nuggets-Wolves series I told you all to watch!Also, this Monday is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:Microsoft BuildFrom theMicrosoft Blog:Groundbreaking advances in AI are having a profound impact on Microsoft and on the developers using our technology to improve efficiency, enhance customer experiences and make new breakthroughs.Over the past year, we’ve built Microsoft Copilot and released more than 150 updates to it, and we’ve developed the Copilot stack, which takes everything we’ve learned so far and lets developers build their own copilots. In addition, over the past two years, GitHub Copilot has become the most widely adopted AI developer tool, with 1.8 million paid subscribers. And just a day ago, we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest, most AI-ready PCs ever built.We are the industry leader in AI, and that’s why, as we begin our flagship event for developers, Microsoft Build, there’s one question on everyone’s mind: What’s next?There is a phrase that has been floating around for the last couple of years: the “AI Platform Shift”. What, though, does that mean? Is AI a platform? If so, what kind of platform? Does it have network effects? Is there an API? Are there moats?Yesterday’sMicrosoft Build keynotecovered a lot of ground, but for me the biggest moment of clarity in terms of answering those questions came early on in CEO Satya Nadella’s presentation:You know when I think about what progress we’ve made since last time we were here at Build, we’ve built really three platforms: the first is Microsoft Copilot, which is your everyday companion. It puts knowledge and expertise at your fingertips, helps you act on it, and we’ve built a Copilot stack so that you can build your AI applications and solutions and experiences, and just yesterday we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest AI-first PCs ever built.I wrote about Copilot+ PCs yesterday, and it’s a useful place to start when it comes to thinking about what exactly is a platform. It used to be that computers were fully integrated from the chip to the operating system to applications — think the IBM System/360. That wasn’t really a platform, but rather a product, although IBM did, under antitrust pressure, eventually open up the System/360 to 3rd-party applications.The IBM PC was different: it had an Intel x86 processor and the DOS operating system from Microsoft, which supported 3rd-party applications from the beginning. Now both Intel and Microsoft would argue that they had a platform, and both have a point. x86 chips weren’t tied to Windows; indeed, the most important operating system for x86 today is arguably Linux. Still, it is the operating system part that defined what we think of as a platform: DOS (and Windows, which was DOS-compatible) was the level of abstraction in the PC stack on which the greatest variety of development happened.One of the benefits of Windows as a platform is that it actually helped developers better take advantage of advances in Intel’s processors, which progressed rapidly throughout the 80s and 90s. Developers could build applications with the knowledge that the processors that ran their applications would get much faster, without having to worry about the specifics; DOS/Windows provided a stable target with a reliable API, and it fell on Microsoft to make sure that DOS/Windows worked with Intel’s latest releases. That, by extension, meant that Intel was free to pursue Moore’s Law, and so deliver on developers’ expectations of ever faster computers.Fast forward to yesterday’s keynote, and Nadella made the case that Moore’s Law is being replaced by Scaling Laws for AI:If you think about it, even going all the way back to the beginning of modern computing, say 70 years ago, there have been two real dreams we’ve had: first, can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers? And second, in a world where we have these ever-increasing information of people, places, and things, as you digitize more artifacts of people, places, and things, and you have more information, can computers help us reason, plan, and act more effectively on all of that information. Those are the two dreams we’ve had for the last 70+ years, and here we are: I think that we have real breakthroughs on both fronts.The core underlying force, one of the questions I always ask myself is, ok, this is great, this is maybe the golden age of systems, what’s really driving it? I always come back to these scaling laws, just like Moore’s Law helped drive the information revolution, these scaling laws of DNN’s — along with the model infrastructure, interesting ways to use data, generate data — are really driving this intelligence revolution. You could say Moore’s Law was probably more stable in the sense that it was scaling at maybe 15 months, 18 months, we now have these things that are scaling every 6 months, or doubling every 6 months.Those scaling laws make for a real lack of stability. The most obvious example are the so-called “GPT wrappers” that add some sort of capability to a large language model, only to be obviated six months later by the model incorporating that capability directly. The analogy to Moore’s Law might be developers who were obsessed with optimization and wringing performance out of applications running on, say, the 286 processor, only to have the 386 come along and make all of that optimization effort fairly pointless. The developers who were product focused and built applications for actual end users were much better off: Intel would solve their performance problems for them, and Windows would make sure they could take advantage of those speed-ups.That, by extension, gets at the AI platform question. Microsoft is making the case that models are not platforms; they are — at least in this analogy — processors. To the extent they are right, that means that for most developers, building directly on top of models may be a bit of a fool’s errand: you run the risk of spending most of your time simply trying to adjust to and incorporate model improvements, instead of building features for end users. What is needed is an additional layer of abstraction that is much more stable and incorporates model improvements for you, and the overarching message at Build is that that additional layer of abstraction will be branded “Copilot”.Copilot PlatformsLast fall Nadella wrote in his annualletter to shareholders:Amid this transformation, our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more remains constant. As a company, we believe we can be the democratizing force for this new generation of technology and the opportunity it will help unlock for every country, community, and individual, while mitigating its risks…To build on this progress, we remain convicted on three things: First, we will maintain our lead as the top commercial cloud while innovating in consumer categories, from gaming to professional social networks. Second, because we know that maximum enterprise value gets created during platform shifts like this one, we will invest to accelerate our lead in AI by infusing this technology across every layer of the tech stack. And, finally, we will continue to drive operating leverage, aligning our cost structure with our revenue growth.First off, providing stability on top of technological changes really is valuable, and yes, “empower(s) every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.” DOS/Windows became a massive platform because a massive platform was exactly what was needed to realize and capture the value being generated by Intel.Second, most of the activity in AI currently is downstream of the commercial cloud. Indeed, that may prove to be the end state in terms of AI value capture: models become a commodity, the primary business model is inference consumption, which is to say that the competitive landscape remains largely the same based on data gravity.Third, such an end state would not represent a “platform shift”, which is to say that “maximum enterprise value” would not be created for really anyone. That is why the Copilots are a big deal: they are Microsoft’s bid to leverage AI into new platforms owned by Microsoft.With that in mind, go back to this slide from the video above:Again, the PC example is the easiest to understand: instead of having to incorporate your own model in an application, Windows will have a variety of models built-in that you can access via API; that same API will naturally extend to models running in the cloud. All of those models can be updated and become smarter and the developer will get those improvements for free, because the API will remain stable.The analogy for “Microsoft Copilot” is Microsoft Teams. Teams doesn’t just provide a chat interface; it is an operating system for the cloud with defined places for developers to integrate their applications in a place that is easily discoverable by users. Similarly, developers can build Copilot extensions that are usable and discoverable by users within Copilot. Copilot itself, meanwhile, is not just built into Windows and Microsoft’s web apps, but is also an app in its own right across platforms like iOS and Android.That last circle, the Copilot stack, is, I think, a recognition of where Teams and Microsoft’s broader attempts to build an OS for the cloud fell short. The biggest problem is thatMicrosoft was late to the entire space, which not only meant that most SaaS apps were built on AWS, but that Microsoft had to try and convince developers to build integrations into their products after the fact; that effort often left developers feeling cold, as they were reduced to a tab in Teams.When it comes to AI, though, Microsoft has a credible claim to be early; at a minimum it is hustling to provide a solution that makes it easy for developers to build their own AI apps, which by definition means those apps are built on Azure. It is also much easier to ensure those applications smoothly integrate with the broader Microsoft ecosystem.So will any of this work? The answer, I think, will depend on how you think about the starting point. You can definitely imagine a lot of developers incorporating Windows’ AI features, but that is because they already build Windows apps, and because Windows already has plenty of end users. If Windows doesn’t grow, then all of this AI stuff will have simply been an investment in maintaining share.It’s a similar story for Microsoft Copilot. Microsoft Copilot, like Teams before it, gets its biggest advantage from incorporating seamlessly into all of a company’s existing Microsoft apps and associated data. Unlike Teams, though, Copilot is a separate SKU that costs money; that means that simply driving adoption amongst Microsoft’s existing user base is in fact a win, not simply treading water.Maybe the most interesting question is around the Copilot stack. This, more than anything, is the real bid to be the new Windows: a stable layer of abstraction on top of rapidly shifting technology that generates “maximum enterprise value”. Even here, though, the importance of data may mean that the countours of the market are already defined by the clouds that exist.A Note on RecallFromThe Verge:Microsoft’s launching Recall for Copilot Plus PCs, a new Windows 11 tool that keeps track of everything you see and do on your computer and, in return, gives you the ability to search and retrieve anything you’ve done on the device.The scope of Recall, which Microsoft has internally called AI Explorer, is incredibly vast — it includes logging things you do in apps, tracking communications in live meetings, remembering all websites you’ve visited for research, and more. All you need to do is perform a “Recall” action, which is like an AI-powered search, and it’ll present a snapshot of that period of time that gives you context of the memory.As a matter of fact, everything you do on the PC appears on an explorable timeline you can scroll through. You can also search live meetings and videos thanks to Live Captions, which transcribes and even translates speech.Microsoft is, understandably, emphasizing that Recall will remain local and private; no one will have access to your data other than you, and even then, only on your device. I believe them!What is interesting to consider, though, is the longer-term implications of this capability existing. Microsoft, broadly speaking, has developed the ability to understand what is happening on a computer at the graphical subsystem level; that, by extension, means that Microsoft has the means to develop large models that know how to use computers via the GUI.I talked about this conceptearlier this yearin the context of the Rabbit R1:The idea is that Rabbit has created what they call a “Large Action Model” which is trained on graphical user interfaces to understand their different components, what buttons do, how content is organized on a website, etc. What that means is that when a user makes a request — “Play Taylor Swift” — the cloud application actually navigates the Spotify interface (assuming you have logged in via OAuth on your “Rabbit Hole” website) and plays Taylor Swift.Agent capability and sustainability are, needless to say, an open question, particularly in these early days. What is so enticing about this approach, though, is that it provides the promise of massive compatibility without having to actually recruit developers to your platform.Nadella in one of the clips above asked, “Can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers?”, and a big part of the excitement about large language models and speech interfaces is that we can simply talk with a computer like we can anything else. Remember, though,I’ve previously made the case that large language models are something different than computers:The fact this works so well is itself a testament to what Assistant AI’s are, and are not: they are not computing as we have previously understood it; they are shockingly human in their way of “thinking” and communicating. And frankly, I would have had a hard time solving those three questions as well — that’s what computers are for! And now ChatGPT has a computer of its own.That Article was about ChatGPT plugins, and how a probabilistic model would be an interface for deterministic computing. In this case, what Recall portends is a way in which a large model can achieve access to every Windows GUI application ever, not by having developers build in integrations, but simply by understanding how to navigate pre-existing user interfaces.Again, to be clear, Recall is not this product, but when this product is built I suspect it will work a lot better than Rabbit’s “Large Action Model”, in no small part because Microsoft owns the platform on which those applications run; indeed, that is very much the theme of this Update: the “AI platform shift” may, in the end, simply be an “AI platform extension” forthe companies that survived the beginning.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWindows and the AI Platform ShiftDateWednesday, May 24, 2023The Cost of DevelopersDateTuesday, June 5, 2018Thin PlatformsDateTuesday, May 31, 2022←Windows ReturnsInterviews with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and CTO Kevin Scott About the AI Platform Shift→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,The NBA playoffs are progressing to the conference finals, and theGreatest of All Talkhas you covered. Thelatest episodewas a great follow-up to a very enjoyable second round, particularly that Nuggets-Wolves series I told you all to watch!Also, this Monday is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:Microsoft BuildFrom theMicrosoft Blog:Groundbreaking advances in AI are having a profound impact on Microsoft and on the developers using our technology to improve efficiency, enhance customer experiences and make new breakthroughs.Over the past year, we’ve built Microsoft Copilot and released more than 150 updates to it, and we’ve developed the Copilot stack, which takes everything we’ve learned so far and lets developers build their own copilots. In addition, over the past two years, GitHub Copilot has become the most widely adopted AI developer tool, with 1.8 million paid subscribers. And just a day ago, we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest, most AI-ready PCs ever built.We are the industry leader in AI, and that’s why, as we begin our flagship event for developers, Microsoft Build, there’s one question on everyone’s mind: What’s next?There is a phrase that has been floating around for the last couple of years: the “AI Platform Shift”. What, though, does that mean? Is AI a platform? If so, what kind of platform? Does it have network effects? Is there an API? Are there moats?Yesterday’sMicrosoft Build keynotecovered a lot of ground, but for me the biggest moment of clarity in terms of answering those questions came early on in CEO Satya Nadella’s presentation:You know when I think about what progress we’ve made since last time we were here at Build, we’ve built really three platforms: the first is Microsoft Copilot, which is your everyday companion. It puts knowledge and expertise at your fingertips, helps you act on it, and we’ve built a Copilot stack so that you can build your AI applications and solutions and experiences, and just yesterday we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest AI-first PCs ever built.I wrote about Copilot+ PCs yesterday, and it’s a useful place to start when it comes to thinking about what exactly is a platform. It used to be that computers were fully integrated from the chip to the operating system to applications — think the IBM System/360. That wasn’t really a platform, but rather a product, although IBM did, under antitrust pressure, eventually open up the System/360 to 3rd-party applications.The IBM PC was different: it had an Intel x86 processor and the DOS operating system from Microsoft, which supported 3rd-party applications from the beginning. Now both Intel and Microsoft would argue that they had a platform, and both have a point. x86 chips weren’t tied to Windows; indeed, the most important operating system for x86 today is arguably Linux. Still, it is the operating system part that defined what we think of as a platform: DOS (and Windows, which was DOS-compatible) was the level of abstraction in the PC stack on which the greatest variety of development happened.One of the benefits of Windows as a platform is that it actually helped developers better take advantage of advances in Intel’s processors, which progressed rapidly throughout the 80s and 90s. Developers could build applications with the knowledge that the processors that ran their applications would get much faster, without having to worry about the specifics; DOS/Windows provided a stable target with a reliable API, and it fell on Microsoft to make sure that DOS/Windows worked with Intel’s latest releases. That, by extension, meant that Intel was free to pursue Moore’s Law, and so deliver on developers’ expectations of ever faster computers.Fast forward to yesterday’s keynote, and Nadella made the case that Moore’s Law is being replaced by Scaling Laws for AI:If you think about it, even going all the way back to the beginning of modern computing, say 70 years ago, there have been two real dreams we’ve had: first, can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers? And second, in a world where we have these ever-increasing information of people, places, and things, as you digitize more artifacts of people, places, and things, and you have more information, can computers help us reason, plan, and act more effectively on all of that information. Those are the two dreams we’ve had for the last 70+ years, and here we are: I think that we have real breakthroughs on both fronts.The core underlying force, one of the questions I always ask myself is, ok, this is great, this is maybe the golden age of systems, what’s really driving it? I always come back to these scaling laws, just like Moore’s Law helped drive the information revolution, these scaling laws of DNN’s — along with the model infrastructure, interesting ways to use data, generate data — are really driving this intelligence revolution. You could say Moore’s Law was probably more stable in the sense that it was scaling at maybe 15 months, 18 months, we now have these things that are scaling every 6 months, or doubling every 6 months.Those scaling laws make for a real lack of stability. The most obvious example are the so-called “GPT wrappers” that add some sort of capability to a large language model, only to be obviated six months later by the model incorporating that capability directly. The analogy to Moore’s Law might be developers who were obsessed with optimization and wringing performance out of applications running on, say, the 286 processor, only to have the 386 come along and make all of that optimization effort fairly pointless. The developers who were product focused and built applications for actual end users were much better off: Intel would solve their performance problems for them, and Windows would make sure they could take advantage of those speed-ups.That, by extension, gets at the AI platform question. Microsoft is making the case that models are not platforms; they are — at least in this analogy — processors. To the extent they are right, that means that for most developers, building directly on top of models may be a bit of a fool’s errand: you run the risk of spending most of your time simply trying to adjust to and incorporate model improvements, instead of building features for end users. What is needed is an additional layer of abstraction that is much more stable and incorporates model improvements for you, and the overarching message at Build is that that additional layer of abstraction will be branded “Copilot”.Copilot PlatformsLast fall Nadella wrote in his annualletter to shareholders:Amid this transformation, our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more remains constant. As a company, we believe we can be the democratizing force for this new generation of technology and the opportunity it will help unlock for every country, community, and individual, while mitigating its risks…To build on this progress, we remain convicted on three things: First, we will maintain our lead as the top commercial cloud while innovating in consumer categories, from gaming to professional social networks. Second, because we know that maximum enterprise value gets created during platform shifts like this one, we will invest to accelerate our lead in AI by infusing this technology across every layer of the tech stack. And, finally, we will continue to drive operating leverage, aligning our cost structure with our revenue growth.First off, providing stability on top of technological changes really is valuable, and yes, “empower(s) every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.” DOS/Windows became a massive platform because a massive platform was exactly what was needed to realize and capture the value being generated by Intel.Second, most of the activity in AI currently is downstream of the commercial cloud. Indeed, that may prove to be the end state in terms of AI value capture: models become a commodity, the primary business model is inference consumption, which is to say that the competitive landscape remains largely the same based on data gravity.Third, such an end state would not represent a “platform shift”, which is to say that “maximum enterprise value” would not be created for really anyone. That is why the Copilots are a big deal: they are Microsoft’s bid to leverage AI into new platforms owned by Microsoft.With that in mind, go back to this slide from the video above:Again, the PC example is the easiest to understand: instead of having to incorporate your own model in an application, Windows will have a variety of models built-in that you can access via API; that same API will naturally extend to models running in the cloud. All of those models can be updated and become smarter and the developer will get those improvements for free, because the API will remain stable.The analogy for “Microsoft Copilot” is Microsoft Teams. Teams doesn’t just provide a chat interface; it is an operating system for the cloud with defined places for developers to integrate their applications in a place that is easily discoverable by users. Similarly, developers can build Copilot extensions that are usable and discoverable by users within Copilot. Copilot itself, meanwhile, is not just built into Windows and Microsoft’s web apps, but is also an app in its own right across platforms like iOS and Android.That last circle, the Copilot stack, is, I think, a recognition of where Teams and Microsoft’s broader attempts to build an OS for the cloud fell short. The biggest problem is thatMicrosoft was late to the entire space, which not only meant that most SaaS apps were built on AWS, but that Microsoft had to try and convince developers to build integrations into their products after the fact; that effort often left developers feeling cold, as they were reduced to a tab in Teams.When it comes to AI, though, Microsoft has a credible claim to be early; at a minimum it is hustling to provide a solution that makes it easy for developers to build their own AI apps, which by definition means those apps are built on Azure. It is also much easier to ensure those applications smoothly integrate with the broader Microsoft ecosystem.So will any of this work? The answer, I think, will depend on how you think about the starting point. You can definitely imagine a lot of developers incorporating Windows’ AI features, but that is because they already build Windows apps, and because Windows already has plenty of end users. If Windows doesn’t grow, then all of this AI stuff will have simply been an investment in maintaining share.It’s a similar story for Microsoft Copilot. Microsoft Copilot, like Teams before it, gets its biggest advantage from incorporating seamlessly into all of a company’s existing Microsoft apps and associated data. Unlike Teams, though, Copilot is a separate SKU that costs money; that means that simply driving adoption amongst Microsoft’s existing user base is in fact a win, not simply treading water.Maybe the most interesting question is around the Copilot stack. This, more than anything, is the real bid to be the new Windows: a stable layer of abstraction on top of rapidly shifting technology that generates “maximum enterprise value”. Even here, though, the importance of data may mean that the countours of the market are already defined by the clouds that exist.A Note on RecallFromThe Verge:Microsoft’s launching Recall for Copilot Plus PCs, a new Windows 11 tool that keeps track of everything you see and do on your computer and, in return, gives you the ability to search and retrieve anything you’ve done on the device.The scope of Recall, which Microsoft has internally called AI Explorer, is incredibly vast — it includes logging things you do in apps, tracking communications in live meetings, remembering all websites you’ve visited for research, and more. All you need to do is perform a “Recall” action, which is like an AI-powered search, and it’ll present a snapshot of that period of time that gives you context of the memory.As a matter of fact, everything you do on the PC appears on an explorable timeline you can scroll through. You can also search live meetings and videos thanks to Live Captions, which transcribes and even translates speech.Microsoft is, understandably, emphasizing that Recall will remain local and private; no one will have access to your data other than you, and even then, only on your device. I believe them!What is interesting to consider, though, is the longer-term implications of this capability existing. Microsoft, broadly speaking, has developed the ability to understand what is happening on a computer at the graphical subsystem level; that, by extension, means that Microsoft has the means to develop large models that know how to use computers via the GUI.I talked about this conceptearlier this yearin the context of the Rabbit R1:The idea is that Rabbit has created what they call a “Large Action Model” which is trained on graphical user interfaces to understand their different components, what buttons do, how content is organized on a website, etc. What that means is that when a user makes a request — “Play Taylor Swift” — the cloud application actually navigates the Spotify interface (assuming you have logged in via OAuth on your “Rabbit Hole” website) and plays Taylor Swift.Agent capability and sustainability are, needless to say, an open question, particularly in these early days. What is so enticing about this approach, though, is that it provides the promise of massive compatibility without having to actually recruit developers to your platform.Nadella in one of the clips above asked, “Can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers?”, and a big part of the excitement about large language models and speech interfaces is that we can simply talk with a computer like we can anything else. Remember, though,I’ve previously made the case that large language models are something different than computers:The fact this works so well is itself a testament to what Assistant AI’s are, and are not: they are not computing as we have previously understood it; they are shockingly human in their way of “thinking” and communicating. And frankly, I would have had a hard time solving those three questions as well — that’s what computers are for! And now ChatGPT has a computer of its own.That Article was about ChatGPT plugins, and how a probabilistic model would be an interface for deterministic computing. In this case, what Recall portends is a way in which a large model can achieve access to every Windows GUI application ever, not by having developers build in integrations, but simply by understanding how to navigate pre-existing user interfaces.Again, to be clear, Recall is not this product, but when this product is built I suspect it will work a lot better than Rabbit’s “Large Action Model”, in no small part because Microsoft owns the platform on which those applications run; indeed, that is very much the theme of this Update: the “AI platform shift” may, in the end, simply be an “AI platform extension” forthe companies that survived the beginning.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email The NBA playoffs are progressing to the conference finals, and theGreatest of All Talkhas you covered. Thelatest episodewas a great follow-up to a very enjoyable second round, particularly that Nuggets-Wolves series I told you all to watch! Over the past year, we’ve built Microsoft Copilot and released more than 150 updates to it, and we’ve developed the Copilot stack, which takes everything we’ve learned so far and lets developers build their own copilots. In addition, over the past two years, GitHub Copilot has become the most widely adopted AI developer tool, with 1.8 million paid subscribers. And just a day ago, we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest, most AI-ready PCs ever built. There is a phrase that has been floating around for the last couple of years: the “AI Platform Shift”. What, though, does that mean? Is AI a platform? If so, what kind of platform? Does it have network effects? Is there an API? Are there moats? You know when I think about what progress we’ve made since last time we were here at Build, we’ve built really three platforms: the first is Microsoft Copilot, which is your everyday companion. It puts knowledge and expertise at your fingertips, helps you act on it, and we’ve built a Copilot stack so that you can build your AI applications and solutions and experiences, and just yesterday we introduced a new category of Copilot+ PCs, the fastest AI-first PCs ever built. I wrote about Copilot+ PCs yesterday, and it’s a useful place to start when it comes to thinking about what exactly is a platform. It used to be that computers were fully integrated from the chip to the operating system to applications — think the IBM System/360. That wasn’t really a platform, but rather a product, although IBM did, under antitrust pressure, eventually open up the System/360 to 3rd-party applications. The IBM PC was different: it had an Intel x86 processor and the DOS operating system from Microsoft, which supported 3rd-party applications from the beginning. Now both Intel and Microsoft would argue that they had a platform, and both have a point. x86 chips weren’t tied to Windows; indeed, the most important operating system for x86 today is arguably Linux. Still, it is the operating system part that defined what we think of as a platform: DOS (and Windows, which was DOS-compatible) was the level of abstraction in the PC stack on which the greatest variety of development happened. One of the benefits of Windows as a platform is that it actually helped developers better take advantage of advances in Intel’s processors, which progressed rapidly throughout the 80s and 90s. Developers could build applications with the knowledge that the processors that ran their applications would get much faster, without having to worry about the specifics; DOS/Windows provided a stable target with a reliable API, and it fell on Microsoft to make sure that DOS/Windows worked with Intel’s latest releases. That, by extension, meant that Intel was free to pursue Moore’s Law, and so deliver on developers’ expectations of ever faster computers. If you think about it, even going all the way back to the beginning of modern computing, say 70 years ago, there have been two real dreams we’ve had: first, can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers? And second, in a world where we have these ever-increasing information of people, places, and things, as you digitize more artifacts of people, places, and things, and you have more information, can computers help us reason, plan, and act more effectively on all of that information. Those are the two dreams we’ve had for the last 70+ years, and here we are: I think that we have real breakthroughs on both fronts. The core underlying force, one of the questions I always ask myself is, ok, this is great, this is maybe the golden age of systems, what’s really driving it? I always come back to these scaling laws, just like Moore’s Law helped drive the information revolution, these scaling laws of DNN’s — along with the model infrastructure, interesting ways to use data, generate data — are really driving this intelligence revolution. You could say Moore’s Law was probably more stable in the sense that it was scaling at maybe 15 months, 18 months, we now have these things that are scaling every 6 months, or doubling every 6 months. Those scaling laws make for a real lack of stability. The most obvious example are the so-called “GPT wrappers” that add some sort of capability to a large language model, only to be obviated six months later by the model incorporating that capability directly. The analogy to Moore’s Law might be developers who were obsessed with optimization and wringing performance out of applications running on, say, the 286 processor, only to have the 386 come along and make all of that optimization effort fairly pointless. The developers who were product focused and built applications for actual end users were much better off: Intel would solve their performance problems for them, and Windows would make sure they could take advantage of those speed-ups. That, by extension, gets at the AI platform question. Microsoft is making the case that models are not platforms; they are — at least in this analogy — processors. To the extent they are right, that means that for most developers, building directly on top of models may be a bit of a fool’s errand: you run the risk of spending most of your time simply trying to adjust to and incorporate model improvements, instead of building features for end users. What is needed is an additional layer of abstraction that is much more stable and incorporates model improvements for you, and the overarching message at Build is that that additional layer of abstraction will be branded “Copilot”. Amid this transformation, our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more remains constant. As a company, we believe we can be the democratizing force for this new generation of technology and the opportunity it will help unlock for every country, community, and individual, while mitigating its risks… To build on this progress, we remain convicted on three things: First, we will maintain our lead as the top commercial cloud while innovating in consumer categories, from gaming to professional social networks. Second, because we know that maximum enterprise value gets created during platform shifts like this one, we will invest to accelerate our lead in AI by infusing this technology across every layer of the tech stack. And, finally, we will continue to drive operating leverage, aligning our cost structure with our revenue growth. First off, providing stability on top of technological changes really is valuable, and yes, “empower(s) every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.” DOS/Windows became a massive platform because a massive platform was exactly what was needed to realize and capture the value being generated by Intel. Second, most of the activity in AI currently is downstream of the commercial cloud. Indeed, that may prove to be the end state in terms of AI value capture: models become a commodity, the primary business model is inference consumption, which is to say that the competitive landscape remains largely the same based on data gravity. Third, such an end state would not represent a “platform shift”, which is to say that “maximum enterprise value” would not be created for really anyone. That is why the Copilots are a big deal: they are Microsoft’s bid to leverage AI into new platforms owned by Microsoft. Again, the PC example is the easiest to understand: instead of having to incorporate your own model in an application, Windows will have a variety of models built-in that you can access via API; that same API will naturally extend to models running in the cloud. All of those models can be updated and become smarter and the developer will get those improvements for free, because the API will remain stable. The analogy for “Microsoft Copilot” is Microsoft Teams. Teams doesn’t just provide a chat interface; it is an operating system for the cloud with defined places for developers to integrate their applications in a place that is easily discoverable by users. Similarly, developers can build Copilot extensions that are usable and discoverable by users within Copilot. Copilot itself, meanwhile, is not just built into Windows and Microsoft’s web apps, but is also an app in its own right across platforms like iOS and Android. That last circle, the Copilot stack, is, I think, a recognition of where Teams and Microsoft’s broader attempts to build an OS for the cloud fell short. The biggest problem is thatMicrosoft was late to the entire space, which not only meant that most SaaS apps were built on AWS, but that Microsoft had to try and convince developers to build integrations into their products after the fact; that effort often left developers feeling cold, as they were reduced to a tab in Teams. When it comes to AI, though, Microsoft has a credible claim to be early; at a minimum it is hustling to provide a solution that makes it easy for developers to build their own AI apps, which by definition means those apps are built on Azure. It is also much easier to ensure those applications smoothly integrate with the broader Microsoft ecosystem. So will any of this work? The answer, I think, will depend on how you think about the starting point. You can definitely imagine a lot of developers incorporating Windows’ AI features, but that is because they already build Windows apps, and because Windows already has plenty of end users. If Windows doesn’t grow, then all of this AI stuff will have simply been an investment in maintaining share. It’s a similar story for Microsoft Copilot. Microsoft Copilot, like Teams before it, gets its biggest advantage from incorporating seamlessly into all of a company’s existing Microsoft apps and associated data. Unlike Teams, though, Copilot is a separate SKU that costs money; that means that simply driving adoption amongst Microsoft’s existing user base is in fact a win, not simply treading water. Maybe the most interesting question is around the Copilot stack. This, more than anything, is the real bid to be the new Windows: a stable layer of abstraction on top of rapidly shifting technology that generates “maximum enterprise value”. Even here, though, the importance of data may mean that the countours of the market are already defined by the clouds that exist. Microsoft’s launching Recall for Copilot Plus PCs, a new Windows 11 tool that keeps track of everything you see and do on your computer and, in return, gives you the ability to search and retrieve anything you’ve done on the device. The scope of Recall, which Microsoft has internally called AI Explorer, is incredibly vast — it includes logging things you do in apps, tracking communications in live meetings, remembering all websites you’ve visited for research, and more. All you need to do is perform a “Recall” action, which is like an AI-powered search, and it’ll present a snapshot of that period of time that gives you context of the memory. As a matter of fact, everything you do on the PC appears on an explorable timeline you can scroll through. You can also search live meetings and videos thanks to Live Captions, which transcribes and even translates speech. What is interesting to consider, though, is the longer-term implications of this capability existing. Microsoft, broadly speaking, has developed the ability to understand what is happening on a computer at the graphical subsystem level; that, by extension, means that Microsoft has the means to develop large models that know how to use computers via the GUI. The idea is that Rabbit has created what they call a “Large Action Model” which is trained on graphical user interfaces to understand their different components, what buttons do, how content is organized on a website, etc. What that means is that when a user makes a request — “Play Taylor Swift” — the cloud application actually navigates the Spotify interface (assuming you have logged in via OAuth on your “Rabbit Hole” website) and plays Taylor Swift. Agent capability and sustainability are, needless to say, an open question, particularly in these early days. What is so enticing about this approach, though, is that it provides the promise of massive compatibility without having to actually recruit developers to your platform. Nadella in one of the clips above asked, “Can computers understand us instead of us having to understand computers?”, and a big part of the excitement about large language models and speech interfaces is that we can simply talk with a computer like we can anything else. Remember, though,I’ve previously made the case that large language models are something different than computers: The fact this works so well is itself a testament to what Assistant AI’s are, and are not: they are not computing as we have previously understood it; they are shockingly human in their way of “thinking” and communicating. And frankly, I would have had a hard time solving those three questions as well — that’s what computers are for! And now ChatGPT has a computer of its own. That Article was about ChatGPT plugins, and how a probabilistic model would be an interface for deterministic computing. In this case, what Recall portends is a way in which a large model can achieve access to every Windows GUI application ever, not by having developers build in integrations, but simply by understanding how to navigate pre-existing user interfaces. Again, to be clear, Recall is not this product, but when this product is built I suspect it will work a lot better than Rabbit’s “Large Action Model”, in no small part because Microsoft owns the platform on which those applications run; indeed, that is very much the theme of this Update: the “AI platform shift” may, in the end, simply be an “AI platform extension” forthe companies that survived the beginning. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025