# [PODCAST] Nvidia and Intel, Tan's Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal Specifics

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/nvidia-and-intel-tans-earnings-call-negotiation-deal-specifics/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.UrSyTEyMjWFTAJHPpqaHnfuDHjfsquirf1j5AZgxd20P3i1MUMD6EIyr7gy6lEan58YAo_riAPMmrUpIpZ7QsJsq0xxmnyDBRz_FlWHMaeTTYAfTQJqHS3JhZalCsdRPmChS6S1x2ptIIQyRs2ttSQqPolQZQpJWxyFAREKnaA22amNAAduatUu5_CYzPnZS2Df1Q1QN7gyMO-nboMWwFR23sTjJAY6YCe_7DnSwcCDwNKpsUoDObtX4gigU9FF582K5WTyMjO6KvFi8pnThuVqr3EDbaWGoGq27U-hYGlhK7DzfKCixegN-caWw8erI4v_Gtwo_vbFPt1KDUO_7RA
**Atlas ID**: 229520
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.851181

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed Meta’s new smart glasses, the Nvidia-Intel deal, and the giant in plain sight that is YouTube.On to the Update:Nvidia and IntelFromBloomberg:Nvidia Corp. agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel Corp. and said the two will co-develop chips for PCs and data centers, a surprise move to help prop up an ailing archrival that sent Intel shares soaring. Nvidia will buy Intel common stock at $23.28 per share, the two companies said on Thursday. Intel will use Nvidia’s graphics technology in upcoming personal computer chips and also provide its processors for data center products built around Nvidia hardware.Intel and Nvidia billed their agreement as a product hook-up that gives them the opportunity to move into areas of the computer market they don’t currently reach, an overall opportunity that may be worth as much as $50 billion a year, according to Nvidia’s Chief Executive Officer Jensen Huang. Investors saw the announcement as a shot in the arm for Intel as the company struggles to stem losses and catch competitors, like Nvidia, that it once dwarfed. Intel shares surged 23% to $30.57 at the close in New York, the biggest single-day jump since October 1987. Nvidia stock gained 3.5% to $176.32 and has increased 31% this year.From the press release announcing the deal (IntelandNvidiareleased identical press releases):NVIDIA and Intel Corporation today announced a collaboration to jointly develop multiple generations of custom data center and PC products that accelerate applications and workloads across hyperscale, enterprise and consumer markets. The companies will focus on seamlessly connecting NVIDIA and Intel architectures using NVIDIA NVLink — integrating the strengths of NVIDIA’s AI and accelerated computing with Intel’s leading CPU technologies and x86 ecosystem to deliver cutting-edge solutions for customers. For data centers, Intel will build NVIDIA-custom x86 CPUs that NVIDIA will integrate into its AI infrastructure platforms and offer to the market. For personal computing, Intel will build and offer to the market x86 system-on-chips (SOCs) that integrate NVIDIA RTX GPU chiplets. These new x86 RTX SOCs will power a wide range of PCs that demand integration of world-class CPUs and GPUs. NVIDIA will invest $5 billion in Intel’s common stock at a purchase price of $23.28 per share. The investment is subject to customary closing conditions, including required regulatory approvals.This is a deal that is most notable for its history, or defiance of. CEO Jensen Huang viewed Intel as the greatest threat to his startup; Tae Kim inThe Nvidia Wayrecounted an all-hands meeting at Nvidia in 1997, when Intel announced a graphics card that threatened Nvidia’s nascent business:“Make no mistake. Intel is out to get us and put us out of business,” Jensen declared at an all–company meeting. “They have told their employees, and they have internalized this. They are going to put us out of business. Our job is to go kill them before they put us out of business. We need to go kill Intel.”That may have been 28 years ago, but memories are long; still, circumstances change, and it’s difficult to think of two companies whose fortunes have changed more dramatically, and in the opposite direction. In this case, Huang is saving Intel, but not solving the fundamental conundrum the company presents to the U.S. in particular.Tan’s Earnings Call NegotiationStart with the Intel side, particularly that increasingly notoriousJuly 24 earnings call. The biggest news out of that call was CEO Lip-Bu Tan’s declaration that it was not a certainty that Intel would build its next generation of fabs at the 14A process node:Up to and through Intel 18A, we could generate a reasonable return on our investments with only Intel Products. The increase in capital cost at Intel 14A, make it clear that we need both Intel products, and a meaningful external customer to drive acceptable returns on our deployed capital, and I will only invest when I’m confident those returns exist.This was the five-alarm fire that ultimately led to the U.S. government taking a 10% stake in Intel, which I supported; I wrote inU.S. Intel:The problem, however, comes back to what Tan said on that earnings call: beyond all of the challenges above, what company is going to go through the trouble of getting their chip working on Intel’s process if it’s possible that the company is going to abandon manufacturing on the next process? It’s a catch-22: Intel needs an external customer to make its foundry viable, but no external customer will go with Intel if there is a possibility that Intel Foundry will not be viable. In other words, the stakes have changed from even earlier this year: Intel doesn’t just need demand, it needs to be able to credibly guarantee would-be customers that it is in manufacturing for the long haul.A standalone Intel cannot credibly make this promise. The path of least resistance for Intel has always been to simply give up manufacturing and become another TSMC customer; they already fab some number of their chips with the Taiwanese giant. Such a decision would — after some very difficult write-offs and wind-down operations — change the company into a much higher margin business; yes, the company’s chip designs have fallen behind as well, but at least they would be on the most competitive process, with a lot of their legacy customer base still on their side.The problem for the U.S. is that that then means pinning all of the country’s long-term chip fabrication hopes on TSMC and Samsung not just building fabs in the United States, but also building up a credible organization in the U.S. that could withstand the loss of their headquarters and engineering knowhow in their home countries.There have been some important steps in this regard, but at the end of the day it seems reckless for the U.S. to place both its national security and its entire economy in the hands of foreign countries next door to China, allies or not.The reason I bring this up is that something similar seems to have happened with regards to this deal; while the 14A news was shocking but not surprising, what confused me at the time was Tan’s assertion that Intel’s big focus was going to be building a systems and software stack for AI workloads.I wrote at the time:My first thought was that this seems fairly delusional; Nvidia is the dominant AI solution, with AMD as a distant second; the true alternative, however, is hyperscalers building their own ASICS. It’s not clear where Intel fits, and the idea that the company is going to suddenly become a compelling software provider doesn’t seem realistic.Well, after this news, it seems safe to assume that the Intel AI software stack isn’t happening, which makes me wonder, was it ever? Or was Tan, on that earnings call, not simply negotiating with the U.S. governmentbut also negotiating with Nvidia? Intentional or not, it worked!Deal SpecificsSo about the deal itself: there are three parts, which are almost entirely about Intel’s design business:Intel will incorporate NVLink into its architecture, making NVLink a much more credible alternative to ethernet in the corporate market in particular.Intel will design a custom x86 chip for use in Nvidia systems; right now Nvidia systems all use an Nvidia-designed ARM chip.Intel will sell chiplet-based systems-on-chips that have an Intel CPU and an Nvidia GPU.All of these are big wins for Nvidia, increasing their access to the Intel-dominated enterprise market, and also providing a lot of upside in terms of PC sales.Intel was cageyabout whether or not its Arc line of GPUs were dead, but that seems inevitable; that, by extension, truly brings this story full circle: Nvidia once feared that Intel was trying to kill them with their own GPUs; now Nvidia is, in all likelihood, killing Intel GPUs above anything other than the very lowest end integrated graphics.What is notable is that this deal isnotabout Nvidia making AI chips in Intel fabs. Intel will get more packaging work from Nvidia, both for the chips in this deal and likely other Nvidia products, which is fine as far as it goes; Intel’s packaging, however, while quite advanced, doesn’t really have anything to do with leading edge chip fabrication. Still, Nvidia is helping: both the $5 billion and the long-term commitment are a vote of confidence in the company, and increase the likelihood that someone else signs up to be the customer Intel needs.This, ultimately, is perhaps the cleverest angle of this deal. There is a good chance that, in the wake of the U.S.-Intel deal, all of the biggest fabless chip companies will be pressured to take a stake in Intel and give them business (which, given that this insurance policy is ultimately for their benefit, is not completely unreasonable). Nvidia, by going first, managed to make a deal that is not only genuinely useful for their business, but also did so without having to actually commit to Intel manufacturing — which no one wants to do!The big loser from this deal, then, is not TSMC, but rather AMD. AMD has long been differentiated from Intel by virtue of not just competing in x86 CPUs but also GPUs, thanks to their 2006 acquisition of ATI (which was, at the time, Nvidia’s biggest competitor). Unfortunately AMD, which has never been very good at software, never built the AI software stack that Nvidia did, and doesn’t have the networking capabilities Nvidia does. This means that the value of owning both a CPU and GPU business hasn’t led to nearly the upside it might have; now there will be a clear first choice for companies who want Nvidia GPUs and also x86 CPUs, and those Intel CPUs will also have yet another proprietary technology that AMD doesn’t (a common refrain even now for things like Thunderbolt).That noted, this loss for AMD is more of the opportunity cost variety; AMD is still doing very well in arenas that only care about performance and TCO, and that should continue. Indeed, you could make the case that this deal actually meaningfully extends x86’s usefulness, which ultimately is good for AMD as well.In summary, Intel has probably been saved, at least for now; however, none of the issues that led to their needing to be saved have been solved, which, by extension, means that the reasons they needed to be saved aren’t rectified either.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.35: Intel and the Least Bad OptionDateFriday, August 29, 2025Nvidia’s Integration DreamsDateTuesday, September 15, 2020Intel seizes their opportunityDateWednesday, October 30, 2013←2025.38: Meta, YouTube, and Tech Press AttentionThe YouTube Tip of the Google Spear→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed Meta’s new smart glasses, the Nvidia-Intel deal, and the giant in plain sight that is YouTube.On to the Update:Nvidia and IntelFromBloomberg:Nvidia Corp. agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel Corp. and said the two will co-develop chips for PCs and data centers, a surprise move to help prop up an ailing archrival that sent Intel shares soaring. Nvidia will buy Intel common stock at $23.28 per share, the two companies said on Thursday. Intel will use Nvidia’s graphics technology in upcoming personal computer chips and also provide its processors for data center products built around Nvidia hardware.Intel and Nvidia billed their agreement as a product hook-up that gives them the opportunity to move into areas of the computer market they don’t currently reach, an overall opportunity that may be worth as much as $50 billion a year, according to Nvidia’s Chief Executive Officer Jensen Huang. Investors saw the announcement as a shot in the arm for Intel as the company struggles to stem losses and catch competitors, like Nvidia, that it once dwarfed. Intel shares surged 23% to $30.57 at the close in New York, the biggest single-day jump since October 1987. Nvidia stock gained 3.5% to $176.32 and has increased 31% this year.From the press release announcing the deal (IntelandNvidiareleased identical press releases):NVIDIA and Intel Corporation today announced a collaboration to jointly develop multiple generations of custom data center and PC products that accelerate applications and workloads across hyperscale, enterprise and consumer markets. The companies will focus on seamlessly connecting NVIDIA and Intel architectures using NVIDIA NVLink — integrating the strengths of NVIDIA’s AI and accelerated computing with Intel’s leading CPU technologies and x86 ecosystem to deliver cutting-edge solutions for customers. For data centers, Intel will build NVIDIA-custom x86 CPUs that NVIDIA will integrate into its AI infrastructure platforms and offer to the market. For personal computing, Intel will build and offer to the market x86 system-on-chips (SOCs) that integrate NVIDIA RTX GPU chiplets. These new x86 RTX SOCs will power a wide range of PCs that demand integration of world-class CPUs and GPUs. NVIDIA will invest $5 billion in Intel’s common stock at a purchase price of $23.28 per share. The investment is subject to customary closing conditions, including required regulatory approvals.This is a deal that is most notable for its history, or defiance of. CEO Jensen Huang viewed Intel as the greatest threat to his startup; Tae Kim inThe Nvidia Wayrecounted an all-hands meeting at Nvidia in 1997, when Intel announced a graphics card that threatened Nvidia’s nascent business:“Make no mistake. Intel is out to get us and put us out of business,” Jensen declared at an all–company meeting. “They have told their employees, and they have internalized this. They are going to put us out of business. Our job is to go kill them before they put us out of business. We need to go kill Intel.”That may have been 28 years ago, but memories are long; still, circumstances change, and it’s difficult to think of two companies whose fortunes have changed more dramatically, and in the opposite direction. In this case, Huang is saving Intel, but not solving the fundamental conundrum the company presents to the U.S. in particular.Tan’s Earnings Call NegotiationStart with the Intel side, particularly that increasingly notoriousJuly 24 earnings call. The biggest news out of that call was CEO Lip-Bu Tan’s declaration that it was not a certainty that Intel would build its next generation of fabs at the 14A process node:Up to and through Intel 18A, we could generate a reasonable return on our investments with only Intel Products. The increase in capital cost at Intel 14A, make it clear that we need both Intel products, and a meaningful external customer to drive acceptable returns on our deployed capital, and I will only invest when I’m confident those returns exist.This was the five-alarm fire that ultimately led to the U.S. government taking a 10% stake in Intel, which I supported; I wrote inU.S. Intel:The problem, however, comes back to what Tan said on that earnings call: beyond all of the challenges above, what company is going to go through the trouble of getting their chip working on Intel’s process if it’s possible that the company is going to abandon manufacturing on the next process? It’s a catch-22: Intel needs an external customer to make its foundry viable, but no external customer will go with Intel if there is a possibility that Intel Foundry will not be viable. In other words, the stakes have changed from even earlier this year: Intel doesn’t just need demand, it needs to be able to credibly guarantee would-be customers that it is in manufacturing for the long haul.A standalone Intel cannot credibly make this promise. The path of least resistance for Intel has always been to simply give up manufacturing and become another TSMC customer; they already fab some number of their chips with the Taiwanese giant. Such a decision would — after some very difficult write-offs and wind-down operations — change the company into a much higher margin business; yes, the company’s chip designs have fallen behind as well, but at least they would be on the most competitive process, with a lot of their legacy customer base still on their side.The problem for the U.S. is that that then means pinning all of the country’s long-term chip fabrication hopes on TSMC and Samsung not just building fabs in the United States, but also building up a credible organization in the U.S. that could withstand the loss of their headquarters and engineering knowhow in their home countries.There have been some important steps in this regard, but at the end of the day it seems reckless for the U.S. to place both its national security and its entire economy in the hands of foreign countries next door to China, allies or not.The reason I bring this up is that something similar seems to have happened with regards to this deal; while the 14A news was shocking but not surprising, what confused me at the time was Tan’s assertion that Intel’s big focus was going to be building a systems and software stack for AI workloads.I wrote at the time:My first thought was that this seems fairly delusional; Nvidia is the dominant AI solution, with AMD as a distant second; the true alternative, however, is hyperscalers building their own ASICS. It’s not clear where Intel fits, and the idea that the company is going to suddenly become a compelling software provider doesn’t seem realistic.Well, after this news, it seems safe to assume that the Intel AI software stack isn’t happening, which makes me wonder, was it ever? Or was Tan, on that earnings call, not simply negotiating with the U.S. governmentbut also negotiating with Nvidia? Intentional or not, it worked!Deal SpecificsSo about the deal itself: there are three parts, which are almost entirely about Intel’s design business:Intel will incorporate NVLink into its architecture, making NVLink a much more credible alternative to ethernet in the corporate market in particular.Intel will design a custom x86 chip for use in Nvidia systems; right now Nvidia systems all use an Nvidia-designed ARM chip.Intel will sell chiplet-based systems-on-chips that have an Intel CPU and an Nvidia GPU.All of these are big wins for Nvidia, increasing their access to the Intel-dominated enterprise market, and also providing a lot of upside in terms of PC sales.Intel was cageyabout whether or not its Arc line of GPUs were dead, but that seems inevitable; that, by extension, truly brings this story full circle: Nvidia once feared that Intel was trying to kill them with their own GPUs; now Nvidia is, in all likelihood, killing Intel GPUs above anything other than the very lowest end integrated graphics.What is notable is that this deal isnotabout Nvidia making AI chips in Intel fabs. Intel will get more packaging work from Nvidia, both for the chips in this deal and likely other Nvidia products, which is fine as far as it goes; Intel’s packaging, however, while quite advanced, doesn’t really have anything to do with leading edge chip fabrication. Still, Nvidia is helping: both the $5 billion and the long-term commitment are a vote of confidence in the company, and increase the likelihood that someone else signs up to be the customer Intel needs.This, ultimately, is perhaps the cleverest angle of this deal. There is a good chance that, in the wake of the U.S.-Intel deal, all of the biggest fabless chip companies will be pressured to take a stake in Intel and give them business (which, given that this insurance policy is ultimately for their benefit, is not completely unreasonable). Nvidia, by going first, managed to make a deal that is not only genuinely useful for their business, but also did so without having to actually commit to Intel manufacturing — which no one wants to do!The big loser from this deal, then, is not TSMC, but rather AMD. AMD has long been differentiated from Intel by virtue of not just competing in x86 CPUs but also GPUs, thanks to their 2006 acquisition of ATI (which was, at the time, Nvidia’s biggest competitor). Unfortunately AMD, which has never been very good at software, never built the AI software stack that Nvidia did, and doesn’t have the networking capabilities Nvidia does. This means that the value of owning both a CPU and GPU business hasn’t led to nearly the upside it might have; now there will be a clear first choice for companies who want Nvidia GPUs and also x86 CPUs, and those Intel CPUs will also have yet another proprietary technology that AMD doesn’t (a common refrain even now for things like Thunderbolt).That noted, this loss for AMD is more of the opportunity cost variety; AMD is still doing very well in arenas that only care about performance and TCO, and that should continue. Indeed, you could make the case that this deal actually meaningfully extends x86’s usefulness, which ultimately is good for AMD as well.In summary, Intel has probably been saved, at least for now; however, none of the issues that led to their needing to be saved have been solved, which, by extension, means that the reasons they needed to be saved aren’t rectified either.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.35: Intel and the Least Bad OptionDateFriday, August 29, 2025Nvidia’s Integration DreamsDateTuesday, September 15, 2020Intel seizes their opportunityDateWednesday, October 30, 2013←2025.38: Meta, YouTube, and Tech Press AttentionThe YouTube Tip of the Google Spear→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed Meta’s new smart glasses, the Nvidia-Intel deal, and the giant in plain sight that is YouTube.On to the Update:Nvidia and IntelFromBloomberg:Nvidia Corp. agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel Corp. and said the two will co-develop chips for PCs and data centers, a surprise move to help prop up an ailing archrival that sent Intel shares soaring. Nvidia will buy Intel common stock at $23.28 per share, the two companies said on Thursday. Intel will use Nvidia’s graphics technology in upcoming personal computer chips and also provide its processors for data center products built around Nvidia hardware.Intel and Nvidia billed their agreement as a product hook-up that gives them the opportunity to move into areas of the computer market they don’t currently reach, an overall opportunity that may be worth as much as $50 billion a year, according to Nvidia’s Chief Executive Officer Jensen Huang. Investors saw the announcement as a shot in the arm for Intel as the company struggles to stem losses and catch competitors, like Nvidia, that it once dwarfed. Intel shares surged 23% to $30.57 at the close in New York, the biggest single-day jump since October 1987. Nvidia stock gained 3.5% to $176.32 and has increased 31% this year.From the press release announcing the deal (IntelandNvidiareleased identical press releases):NVIDIA and Intel Corporation today announced a collaboration to jointly develop multiple generations of custom data center and PC products that accelerate applications and workloads across hyperscale, enterprise and consumer markets. The companies will focus on seamlessly connecting NVIDIA and Intel architectures using NVIDIA NVLink — integrating the strengths of NVIDIA’s AI and accelerated computing with Intel’s leading CPU technologies and x86 ecosystem to deliver cutting-edge solutions for customers. For data centers, Intel will build NVIDIA-custom x86 CPUs that NVIDIA will integrate into its AI infrastructure platforms and offer to the market. For personal computing, Intel will build and offer to the market x86 system-on-chips (SOCs) that integrate NVIDIA RTX GPU chiplets. These new x86 RTX SOCs will power a wide range of PCs that demand integration of world-class CPUs and GPUs. NVIDIA will invest $5 billion in Intel’s common stock at a purchase price of $23.28 per share. The investment is subject to customary closing conditions, including required regulatory approvals.This is a deal that is most notable for its history, or defiance of. CEO Jensen Huang viewed Intel as the greatest threat to his startup; Tae Kim inThe Nvidia Wayrecounted an all-hands meeting at Nvidia in 1997, when Intel announced a graphics card that threatened Nvidia’s nascent business:“Make no mistake. Intel is out to get us and put us out of business,” Jensen declared at an all–company meeting. “They have told their employees, and they have internalized this. They are going to put us out of business. Our job is to go kill them before they put us out of business. We need to go kill Intel.”That may have been 28 years ago, but memories are long; still, circumstances change, and it’s difficult to think of two companies whose fortunes have changed more dramatically, and in the opposite direction. In this case, Huang is saving Intel, but not solving the fundamental conundrum the company presents to the U.S. in particular.Tan’s Earnings Call NegotiationStart with the Intel side, particularly that increasingly notoriousJuly 24 earnings call. The biggest news out of that call was CEO Lip-Bu Tan’s declaration that it was not a certainty that Intel would build its next generation of fabs at the 14A process node:Up to and through Intel 18A, we could generate a reasonable return on our investments with only Intel Products. The increase in capital cost at Intel 14A, make it clear that we need both Intel products, and a meaningful external customer to drive acceptable returns on our deployed capital, and I will only invest when I’m confident those returns exist.This was the five-alarm fire that ultimately led to the U.S. government taking a 10% stake in Intel, which I supported; I wrote inU.S. Intel:The problem, however, comes back to what Tan said on that earnings call: beyond all of the challenges above, what company is going to go through the trouble of getting their chip working on Intel’s process if it’s possible that the company is going to abandon manufacturing on the next process? It’s a catch-22: Intel needs an external customer to make its foundry viable, but no external customer will go with Intel if there is a possibility that Intel Foundry will not be viable. In other words, the stakes have changed from even earlier this year: Intel doesn’t just need demand, it needs to be able to credibly guarantee would-be customers that it is in manufacturing for the long haul.A standalone Intel cannot credibly make this promise. The path of least resistance for Intel has always been to simply give up manufacturing and become another TSMC customer; they already fab some number of their chips with the Taiwanese giant. Such a decision would — after some very difficult write-offs and wind-down operations — change the company into a much higher margin business; yes, the company’s chip designs have fallen behind as well, but at least they would be on the most competitive process, with a lot of their legacy customer base still on their side.The problem for the U.S. is that that then means pinning all of the country’s long-term chip fabrication hopes on TSMC and Samsung not just building fabs in the United States, but also building up a credible organization in the U.S. that could withstand the loss of their headquarters and engineering knowhow in their home countries.There have been some important steps in this regard, but at the end of the day it seems reckless for the U.S. to place both its national security and its entire economy in the hands of foreign countries next door to China, allies or not.The reason I bring this up is that something similar seems to have happened with regards to this deal; while the 14A news was shocking but not surprising, what confused me at the time was Tan’s assertion that Intel’s big focus was going to be building a systems and software stack for AI workloads.I wrote at the time:My first thought was that this seems fairly delusional; Nvidia is the dominant AI solution, with AMD as a distant second; the true alternative, however, is hyperscalers building their own ASICS. It’s not clear where Intel fits, and the idea that the company is going to suddenly become a compelling software provider doesn’t seem realistic.Well, after this news, it seems safe to assume that the Intel AI software stack isn’t happening, which makes me wonder, was it ever? Or was Tan, on that earnings call, not simply negotiating with the U.S. governmentbut also negotiating with Nvidia? Intentional or not, it worked!Deal SpecificsSo about the deal itself: there are three parts, which are almost entirely about Intel’s design business:Intel will incorporate NVLink into its architecture, making NVLink a much more credible alternative to ethernet in the corporate market in particular.Intel will design a custom x86 chip for use in Nvidia systems; right now Nvidia systems all use an Nvidia-designed ARM chip.Intel will sell chiplet-based systems-on-chips that have an Intel CPU and an Nvidia GPU.All of these are big wins for Nvidia, increasing their access to the Intel-dominated enterprise market, and also providing a lot of upside in terms of PC sales.Intel was cageyabout whether or not its Arc line of GPUs were dead, but that seems inevitable; that, by extension, truly brings this story full circle: Nvidia once feared that Intel was trying to kill them with their own GPUs; now Nvidia is, in all likelihood, killing Intel GPUs above anything other than the very lowest end integrated graphics.What is notable is that this deal isnotabout Nvidia making AI chips in Intel fabs. Intel will get more packaging work from Nvidia, both for the chips in this deal and likely other Nvidia products, which is fine as far as it goes; Intel’s packaging, however, while quite advanced, doesn’t really have anything to do with leading edge chip fabrication. Still, Nvidia is helping: both the $5 billion and the long-term commitment are a vote of confidence in the company, and increase the likelihood that someone else signs up to be the customer Intel needs.This, ultimately, is perhaps the cleverest angle of this deal. There is a good chance that, in the wake of the U.S.-Intel deal, all of the biggest fabless chip companies will be pressured to take a stake in Intel and give them business (which, given that this insurance policy is ultimately for their benefit, is not completely unreasonable). Nvidia, by going first, managed to make a deal that is not only genuinely useful for their business, but also did so without having to actually commit to Intel manufacturing — which no one wants to do!The big loser from this deal, then, is not TSMC, but rather AMD. AMD has long been differentiated from Intel by virtue of not just competing in x86 CPUs but also GPUs, thanks to their 2006 acquisition of ATI (which was, at the time, Nvidia’s biggest competitor). Unfortunately AMD, which has never been very good at software, never built the AI software stack that Nvidia did, and doesn’t have the networking capabilities Nvidia does. This means that the value of owning both a CPU and GPU business hasn’t led to nearly the upside it might have; now there will be a clear first choice for companies who want Nvidia GPUs and also x86 CPUs, and those Intel CPUs will also have yet another proprietary technology that AMD doesn’t (a common refrain even now for things like Thunderbolt).That noted, this loss for AMD is more of the opportunity cost variety; AMD is still doing very well in arenas that only care about performance and TCO, and that should continue. Indeed, you could make the case that this deal actually meaningfully extends x86’s usefulness, which ultimately is good for AMD as well.In summary, Intel has probably been saved, at least for now; however, none of the issues that led to their needing to be saved have been solved, which, by extension, means that the reasons they needed to be saved aren’t rectified either.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.35: Intel and the Least Bad OptionDateFriday, August 29, 2025Nvidia’s Integration DreamsDateTuesday, September 15, 2020Intel seizes their opportunityDateWednesday, October 30, 2013←2025.38: Meta, YouTube, and Tech Press AttentionThe YouTube Tip of the Google Spear→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed Meta’s new smart glasses, the Nvidia-Intel deal, and the giant in plain sight that is YouTube.On to the Update:Nvidia and IntelFromBloomberg:Nvidia Corp. agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel Corp. and said the two will co-develop chips for PCs and data centers, a surprise move to help prop up an ailing archrival that sent Intel shares soaring. Nvidia will buy Intel common stock at $23.28 per share, the two companies said on Thursday. Intel will use Nvidia’s graphics technology in upcoming personal computer chips and also provide its processors for data center products built around Nvidia hardware.Intel and Nvidia billed their agreement as a product hook-up that gives them the opportunity to move into areas of the computer market they don’t currently reach, an overall opportunity that may be worth as much as $50 billion a year, according to Nvidia’s Chief Executive Officer Jensen Huang. Investors saw the announcement as a shot in the arm for Intel as the company struggles to stem losses and catch competitors, like Nvidia, that it once dwarfed. Intel shares surged 23% to $30.57 at the close in New York, the biggest single-day jump since October 1987. Nvidia stock gained 3.5% to $176.32 and has increased 31% this year.From the press release announcing the deal (IntelandNvidiareleased identical press releases):NVIDIA and Intel Corporation today announced a collaboration to jointly develop multiple generations of custom data center and PC products that accelerate applications and workloads across hyperscale, enterprise and consumer markets. The companies will focus on seamlessly connecting NVIDIA and Intel architectures using NVIDIA NVLink — integrating the strengths of NVIDIA’s AI and accelerated computing with Intel’s leading CPU technologies and x86 ecosystem to deliver cutting-edge solutions for customers. For data centers, Intel will build NVIDIA-custom x86 CPUs that NVIDIA will integrate into its AI infrastructure platforms and offer to the market. For personal computing, Intel will build and offer to the market x86 system-on-chips (SOCs) that integrate NVIDIA RTX GPU chiplets. These new x86 RTX SOCs will power a wide range of PCs that demand integration of world-class CPUs and GPUs. NVIDIA will invest $5 billion in Intel’s common stock at a purchase price of $23.28 per share. The investment is subject to customary closing conditions, including required regulatory approvals.This is a deal that is most notable for its history, or defiance of. CEO Jensen Huang viewed Intel as the greatest threat to his startup; Tae Kim inThe Nvidia Wayrecounted an all-hands meeting at Nvidia in 1997, when Intel announced a graphics card that threatened Nvidia’s nascent business:“Make no mistake. Intel is out to get us and put us out of business,” Jensen declared at an all–company meeting. “They have told their employees, and they have internalized this. They are going to put us out of business. Our job is to go kill them before they put us out of business. We need to go kill Intel.”That may have been 28 years ago, but memories are long; still, circumstances change, and it’s difficult to think of two companies whose fortunes have changed more dramatically, and in the opposite direction. In this case, Huang is saving Intel, but not solving the fundamental conundrum the company presents to the U.S. in particular.Tan’s Earnings Call NegotiationStart with the Intel side, particularly that increasingly notoriousJuly 24 earnings call. The biggest news out of that call was CEO Lip-Bu Tan’s declaration that it was not a certainty that Intel would build its next generation of fabs at the 14A process node:Up to and through Intel 18A, we could generate a reasonable return on our investments with only Intel Products. The increase in capital cost at Intel 14A, make it clear that we need both Intel products, and a meaningful external customer to drive acceptable returns on our deployed capital, and I will only invest when I’m confident those returns exist.This was the five-alarm fire that ultimately led to the U.S. government taking a 10% stake in Intel, which I supported; I wrote inU.S. Intel:The problem, however, comes back to what Tan said on that earnings call: beyond all of the challenges above, what company is going to go through the trouble of getting their chip working on Intel’s process if it’s possible that the company is going to abandon manufacturing on the next process? It’s a catch-22: Intel needs an external customer to make its foundry viable, but no external customer will go with Intel if there is a possibility that Intel Foundry will not be viable. In other words, the stakes have changed from even earlier this year: Intel doesn’t just need demand, it needs to be able to credibly guarantee would-be customers that it is in manufacturing for the long haul.A standalone Intel cannot credibly make this promise. The path of least resistance for Intel has always been to simply give up manufacturing and become another TSMC customer; they already fab some number of their chips with the Taiwanese giant. Such a decision would — after some very difficult write-offs and wind-down operations — change the company into a much higher margin business; yes, the company’s chip designs have fallen behind as well, but at least they would be on the most competitive process, with a lot of their legacy customer base still on their side.The problem for the U.S. is that that then means pinning all of the country’s long-term chip fabrication hopes on TSMC and Samsung not just building fabs in the United States, but also building up a credible organization in the U.S. that could withstand the loss of their headquarters and engineering knowhow in their home countries.There have been some important steps in this regard, but at the end of the day it seems reckless for the U.S. to place both its national security and its entire economy in the hands of foreign countries next door to China, allies or not.The reason I bring this up is that something similar seems to have happened with regards to this deal; while the 14A news was shocking but not surprising, what confused me at the time was Tan’s assertion that Intel’s big focus was going to be building a systems and software stack for AI workloads.I wrote at the time:My first thought was that this seems fairly delusional; Nvidia is the dominant AI solution, with AMD as a distant second; the true alternative, however, is hyperscalers building their own ASICS. It’s not clear where Intel fits, and the idea that the company is going to suddenly become a compelling software provider doesn’t seem realistic.Well, after this news, it seems safe to assume that the Intel AI software stack isn’t happening, which makes me wonder, was it ever? Or was Tan, on that earnings call, not simply negotiating with the U.S. governmentbut also negotiating with Nvidia? Intentional or not, it worked!Deal SpecificsSo about the deal itself: there are three parts, which are almost entirely about Intel’s design business:Intel will incorporate NVLink into its architecture, making NVLink a much more credible alternative to ethernet in the corporate market in particular.Intel will design a custom x86 chip for use in Nvidia systems; right now Nvidia systems all use an Nvidia-designed ARM chip.Intel will sell chiplet-based systems-on-chips that have an Intel CPU and an Nvidia GPU.All of these are big wins for Nvidia, increasing their access to the Intel-dominated enterprise market, and also providing a lot of upside in terms of PC sales.Intel was cageyabout whether or not its Arc line of GPUs were dead, but that seems inevitable; that, by extension, truly brings this story full circle: Nvidia once feared that Intel was trying to kill them with their own GPUs; now Nvidia is, in all likelihood, killing Intel GPUs above anything other than the very lowest end integrated graphics.What is notable is that this deal isnotabout Nvidia making AI chips in Intel fabs. Intel will get more packaging work from Nvidia, both for the chips in this deal and likely other Nvidia products, which is fine as far as it goes; Intel’s packaging, however, while quite advanced, doesn’t really have anything to do with leading edge chip fabrication. Still, Nvidia is helping: both the $5 billion and the long-term commitment are a vote of confidence in the company, and increase the likelihood that someone else signs up to be the customer Intel needs.This, ultimately, is perhaps the cleverest angle of this deal. There is a good chance that, in the wake of the U.S.-Intel deal, all of the biggest fabless chip companies will be pressured to take a stake in Intel and give them business (which, given that this insurance policy is ultimately for their benefit, is not completely unreasonable). Nvidia, by going first, managed to make a deal that is not only genuinely useful for their business, but also did so without having to actually commit to Intel manufacturing — which no one wants to do!The big loser from this deal, then, is not TSMC, but rather AMD. AMD has long been differentiated from Intel by virtue of not just competing in x86 CPUs but also GPUs, thanks to their 2006 acquisition of ATI (which was, at the time, Nvidia’s biggest competitor). Unfortunately AMD, which has never been very good at software, never built the AI software stack that Nvidia did, and doesn’t have the networking capabilities Nvidia does. This means that the value of owning both a CPU and GPU business hasn’t led to nearly the upside it might have; now there will be a clear first choice for companies who want Nvidia GPUs and also x86 CPUs, and those Intel CPUs will also have yet another proprietary technology that AMD doesn’t (a common refrain even now for things like Thunderbolt).That noted, this loss for AMD is more of the opportunity cost variety; AMD is still doing very well in arenas that only care about performance and TCO, and that should continue. Indeed, you could make the case that this deal actually meaningfully extends x86’s usefulness, which ultimately is good for AMD as well.In summary, Intel has probably been saved, at least for now; however, none of the issues that led to their needing to be saved have been solved, which, by extension, means that the reasons they needed to be saved aren’t rectified either.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Nvidia Corp. agreed to invest $5 billion in Intel Corp. and said the two will co-develop chips for PCs and data centers, a surprise move to help prop up an ailing archrival that sent Intel shares soaring. Nvidia will buy Intel common stock at $23.28 per share, the two companies said on Thursday. Intel will use Nvidia’s graphics technology in upcoming personal computer chips and also provide its processors for data center products built around Nvidia hardware. Intel and Nvidia billed their agreement as a product hook-up that gives them the opportunity to move into areas of the computer market they don’t currently reach, an overall opportunity that may be worth as much as $50 billion a year, according to Nvidia’s Chief Executive Officer Jensen Huang. Investors saw the announcement as a shot in the arm for Intel as the company struggles to stem losses and catch competitors, like Nvidia, that it once dwarfed. Intel shares surged 23% to $30.57 at the close in New York, the biggest single-day jump since October 1987. Nvidia stock gained 3.5% to $176.32 and has increased 31% this year. NVIDIA and Intel Corporation today announced a collaboration to jointly develop multiple generations of custom data center and PC products that accelerate applications and workloads across hyperscale, enterprise and consumer markets. The companies will focus on seamlessly connecting NVIDIA and Intel architectures using NVIDIA NVLink — integrating the strengths of NVIDIA’s AI and accelerated computing with Intel’s leading CPU technologies and x86 ecosystem to deliver cutting-edge solutions for customers. For data centers, Intel will build NVIDIA-custom x86 CPUs that NVIDIA will integrate into its AI infrastructure platforms and offer to the market. For personal computing, Intel will build and offer to the market x86 system-on-chips (SOCs) that integrate NVIDIA RTX GPU chiplets. These new x86 RTX SOCs will power a wide range of PCs that demand integration of world-class CPUs and GPUs. NVIDIA will invest $5 billion in Intel’s common stock at a purchase price of $23.28 per share. The investment is subject to customary closing conditions, including required regulatory approvals. This is a deal that is most notable for its history, or defiance of. CEO Jensen Huang viewed Intel as the greatest threat to his startup; Tae Kim inThe Nvidia Wayrecounted an all-hands meeting at Nvidia in 1997, when Intel announced a graphics card that threatened Nvidia’s nascent business: “Make no mistake. Intel is out to get us and put us out of business,” Jensen declared at an all–company meeting. “They have told their employees, and they have internalized this. They are going to put us out of business. Our job is to go kill them before they put us out of business. We need to go kill Intel.” That may have been 28 years ago, but memories are long; still, circumstances change, and it’s difficult to think of two companies whose fortunes have changed more dramatically, and in the opposite direction. In this case, Huang is saving Intel, but not solving the fundamental conundrum the company presents to the U.S. in particular. Start with the Intel side, particularly that increasingly notoriousJuly 24 earnings call. The biggest news out of that call was CEO Lip-Bu Tan’s declaration that it was not a certainty that Intel would build its next generation of fabs at the 14A process node: Up to and through Intel 18A, we could generate a reasonable return on our investments with only Intel Products. The increase in capital cost at Intel 14A, make it clear that we need both Intel products, and a meaningful external customer to drive acceptable returns on our deployed capital, and I will only invest when I’m confident those returns exist. The problem, however, comes back to what Tan said on that earnings call: beyond all of the challenges above, what company is going to go through the trouble of getting their chip working on Intel’s process if it’s possible that the company is going to abandon manufacturing on the next process? It’s a catch-22: Intel needs an external customer to make its foundry viable, but no external customer will go with Intel if there is a possibility that Intel Foundry will not be viable. In other words, the stakes have changed from even earlier this year: Intel doesn’t just need demand, it needs to be able to credibly guarantee would-be customers that it is in manufacturing for the long haul. A standalone Intel cannot credibly make this promise. The path of least resistance for Intel has always been to simply give up manufacturing and become another TSMC customer; they already fab some number of their chips with the Taiwanese giant. Such a decision would — after some very difficult write-offs and wind-down operations — change the company into a much higher margin business; yes, the company’s chip designs have fallen behind as well, but at least they would be on the most competitive process, with a lot of their legacy customer base still on their side. The problem for the U.S. is that that then means pinning all of the country’s long-term chip fabrication hopes on TSMC and Samsung not just building fabs in the United States, but also building up a credible organization in the U.S. that could withstand the loss of their headquarters and engineering knowhow in their home countries.There have been some important steps in this regard, but at the end of the day it seems reckless for the U.S. to place both its national security and its entire economy in the hands of foreign countries next door to China, allies or not. The reason I bring this up is that something similar seems to have happened with regards to this deal; while the 14A news was shocking but not surprising, what confused me at the time was Tan’s assertion that Intel’s big focus was going to be building a systems and software stack for AI workloads.I wrote at the time: My first thought was that this seems fairly delusional; Nvidia is the dominant AI solution, with AMD as a distant second; the true alternative, however, is hyperscalers building their own ASICS. It’s not clear where Intel fits, and the idea that the company is going to suddenly become a compelling software provider doesn’t seem realistic. Well, after this news, it seems safe to assume that the Intel AI software stack isn’t happening, which makes me wonder, was it ever? Or was Tan, on that earnings call, not simply negotiating with the U.S. governmentbut also negotiating with Nvidia? Intentional or not, it worked! All of these are big wins for Nvidia, increasing their access to the Intel-dominated enterprise market, and also providing a lot of upside in terms of PC sales.Intel was cageyabout whether or not its Arc line of GPUs were dead, but that seems inevitable; that, by extension, truly brings this story full circle: Nvidia once feared that Intel was trying to kill them with their own GPUs; now Nvidia is, in all likelihood, killing Intel GPUs above anything other than the very lowest end integrated graphics. What is notable is that this deal isnotabout Nvidia making AI chips in Intel fabs. Intel will get more packaging work from Nvidia, both for the chips in this deal and likely other Nvidia products, which is fine as far as it goes; Intel’s packaging, however, while quite advanced, doesn’t really have anything to do with leading edge chip fabrication. Still, Nvidia is helping: both the $5 billion and the long-term commitment are a vote of confidence in the company, and increase the likelihood that someone else signs up to be the customer Intel needs. This, ultimately, is perhaps the cleverest angle of this deal. There is a good chance that, in the wake of the U.S.-Intel deal, all of the biggest fabless chip companies will be pressured to take a stake in Intel and give them business (which, given that this insurance policy is ultimately for their benefit, is not completely unreasonable). Nvidia, by going first, managed to make a deal that is not only genuinely useful for their business, but also did so without having to actually commit to Intel manufacturing — which no one wants to do! The big loser from this deal, then, is not TSMC, but rather AMD. AMD has long been differentiated from Intel by virtue of not just competing in x86 CPUs but also GPUs, thanks to their 2006 acquisition of ATI (which was, at the time, Nvidia’s biggest competitor). Unfortunately AMD, which has never been very good at software, never built the AI software stack that Nvidia did, and doesn’t have the networking capabilities Nvidia does. This means that the value of owning both a CPU and GPU business hasn’t led to nearly the upside it might have; now there will be a clear first choice for companies who want Nvidia GPUs and also x86 CPUs, and those Intel CPUs will also have yet another proprietary technology that AMD doesn’t (a common refrain even now for things like Thunderbolt). That noted, this loss for AMD is more of the opportunity cost variety; AMD is still doing very well in arenas that only care about performance and TCO, and that should continue. Indeed, you could make the case that this deal actually meaningfully extends x86’s usefulness, which ultimately is good for AMD as well. In summary, Intel has probably been saved, at least for now; however, none of the issues that led to their needing to be saved have been solved, which, by extension, means that the reasons they needed to be saved aren’t rectified either. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025