# [PODCAST] Google I/O, The Search Funnel, Product Possibilities

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/google-i-o-the-search-funnel-product-possibilities/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.oI-_dXWbxLxdBL7eIZMt49SVQfukuJcoTCoQ3XaQXME0LfiB-VBlTk9taEGatz_ML9rrAs_KF_RqFfalo8yDvoFW8CohtvH4UYcdjSRHSHcYduDsZ9ZsVfP0Bc_Grqy37CnOSPEU91RpKuXJt72GnVwxxJQQ2q-lFA7J6hTb0poHdDHuvExOa5BxKUCHOyY4FP6RJ-J6K8ao5tmDw-iDInHpw7jNDXUX9mNm9Fs2y9clyP9UULf2WTdDHry5yx0GaUkC47AqIVJDLDox2GJBOO9JWyeQ-vb5TicXUBnNKuaQEyhXIEIVJv_lYPX1re2kKhrZHh8l3xEMnE1oXqsarA
**Atlas ID**: 229573
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.884842

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirGoogle I/O, The Search Funnel, Product PossibilitiesWednesday, May 21, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the U.S. AI deals with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates; onlast Thursday’s episodewe discussed Airbnb’s expanded ambitions and the return of HBO Max.On to the Update:Google I/OFromReuters:Google said on Tuesday it would put artificial intelligence into the hands of more Web surfers while teasing a $249.99-a-month subscription for its AI power users, its latest effort to fend off growing competition from startups like OpenAI. Google unveiled the plans amid a flurry of demos that included new smart glasses during its annual I/O conference in Mountain View, California, which has adopted a tone of increased urgency since the rise of generative AI challenged the tech company’s longtime stronghold of organizing and retrieving information on the internet…In a major update, the company said consumers across the United States now can switch Google Search into “AI Mode.” Showcased in March as an experiment open to test users, the feature dispenses with the Web’s standard fare in favor of computer-generated answers for complicated queries. Google also announced an “AI Ultra Plan,” which for $249.99 monthly provides users with higher limits on AI and early access to experimental tools like Project Mariner, an internet browser extension that can automate keystrokes and mouse clicks, and Deep Think, a version of its top-shelf Gemini model that is more capable of reasoning through complicated tasks…Pichai told reporters that the rise of generative AI was not at the full expense of online search.This “feels very far from a zero-sum moment,” said Pichai. “The kind of use cases we are serving in search is dramatically expanding” because of AI.First off, my compliments to Reuters for this write-up; the amount of things announced or pre-announced or “envisioned” was pretty overwhelming:This was, to be sure, terribly impressive: we already know that Gemini 2.5 is awesome, and the company’s Imagen 4 image model and Veo 3 video model were significant leaps forward from just a few months ago.I wrote in Decemberwhen Veo 2 came out:The reason to focus on Veo 2, however, is not just that it strikes me as a seminal moment in generative AI history, but that it also is the most powerful manifestation of the advantages that Google has in this space. Think about the three pillars of generative AI:Algorithms:Google of course invented the transformer, but it certainly seems likely that the company figured out something important in terms of maintaining coherence (whichI complained about with Sora).Compute:Google is training and running inference on its own TPUs — which are increasingly developed in conjunction with its models (andJeff Dean said at NeurIPS that he thinks there are massive more gains to had with further specialization).Data:Data is shaping up to be the biggest obstacle for model development going forward; the single-greatest untapped resource is likely video generally, and YouTube in particular — which Google owns! I can certainly imagine this was an important resource for the development of Veo 2.What we saw over the last week was all of these resources being brought to bear, and the results are impressive.Google I/O was this on steroids, but at the same time — and I’m not sure if this was because of the sheer quantity of announcements — I came away feeling less impressed than I should have; I decided I needed to take the dog for a walk:I wanted, by the way, to tie these videos together into something more coherent; they’re both made using Veo 3 inGoogle Flow, the new product Google announced to utilize Veo. Unfortunately it’s extremely hard to use and very buggy, above-and-beyond the general challenges of linking together disparately generated videos while retaining coherence.This, in the end, makes the point that I ultimately came to on my walk: Google Flow was arguably the most archetypicalproductannouncement at Google I/O, but while Veo 3 is jaw-dropping, Flow was pretty disappointing. More generally, the generative AI pillars that I wrote about last December, the areas that Google dominates, notably don’t include generative AIproducts. And that, more than anything, was my I/O takeaway: Google technology is incredible, but I’m still not convinced this company can make compelling products. Indeed, my critique of the presentation as a whole was how unfocused and random it felt: Google’s inability to prioritize and set a coherent narrative actually diminished just how incredible their advances are.The Search FunnelThe one clear exception was smack dab in the middle of the keynote, which focused on Search; I don’t think it’s an accident that Google’s best and most important product had the clearest presentation and vision.CEO Sundar Pichai started with a brief overview of AI Overviews:It’s another exciting example of how AI is advancing our timeless mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. No product embodies our mission more than Google Search. It’s the reason we started investing in AI decades ago and how we can deliver its benefits scale of human curiosity. Our Gemini models are helping to make Google Search more intelligent, agentic, and personalized.One great example of progress is our AI Overviews. Since launching at I/O last year, they’ve scaled up to over 1.5 billion users every month in more than 200 countries and territories. As people use AI Overviews, we see they are happier with their results and they search more often. In our biggest markets like the US and India, AI Overviews are driving over 10% growth in the types of queries that show them. What’s particularly exciting is that this growth increases over time. It’s our most successful launch in search in the past decade.AI Overviews are also one of the strongest drivers of growth for visual searches in Google Lens. Lens grew 65% year over year, with more than 100 billion already this year. So people are asking more queries and they’re also asking more complex queries. With our latest Gemini models, our AI Overviews are at the quality and accuracy you’ve come to expect from search and are the fastest in the industry.AI Overviews are,as I pointed out after Google’s most recent earnings, the most used generative AI product in the world; most of today’s Search segment, however, was focused on the new AI Mode. AI Mode was introduced by Head of Search Liz Reid:Today you’ll see how you can ask anything, and more intelligent, agentic, and personalized search will take on your toughest questions and help you get stuff done. This is the future of Google Search, a search that goes beyond information to intelligence, and you’re starting to see this come to life already with AI Overviews, and AI Mode takes this to the next level. AI Mode is Search transformed with Gemini 2.5 at its core. It’s our most powerful AI search, able to tackle any question, and as Sundar announced, we’re excited to start rolling out AI Mode for everyone in the U.S., starting today. You’ll find it as a new tab directly in search or right from your search bar.AI Mode will be loaded up with all of our best AI features and capabilities. But it’s even more than that. It’s a glimpse of what’s to come. Over time, we’ll graduate many of AI Mode’s cutting-edge features and capabilities directly into the core search experience. That starts today, as we bring the same models that power AI Mode to power AI Overviews. So you can bring your hardest questions right to the search box.Today we’ll give you a tour of AI Mode, and you’ll see how it works and how it’s getting even better with personal context, deeper research, complex analysis and visualization, live multimodality, and new ways to shop.AI Mode is more of a chat-like interface, and all of the demos are impressive. They are also real, as in either available now or shipping soon, and all seem clearly useful. On-demand data visualization, for example, seems like such an obvious win for generative AI-powered search.The most interesting comment Reid made, however, is that paragraph in the middle: the real goal for AI Mode is to refine these features so that they can “graduate” to the core search experience. In other words, Google has a clearly defined “AI funnel”, which actually brings the coherence to this keynote that I was looking for. At the foundation of everything are those pillars I referenced above: Google’s incredible models, unmatched infrastructure, and data advantage (Reid’s discussion of personalizing AI Mode using your personal data was compelling as well). Then, you have a bunch of theoretical ideas that make for cool demo videos, but the actual productization that still functions in Google is on the Search team. That team takes ideas that work and puts them in AI Mode, and when they are ready, they make it into actual Search.What is interesting to think about is what the criteria might be for “graduation”. Obviously performance is a big one. There is a leap from a subscription-gated product page to a freely available product page to a tab on search results to being served by default to billions of users. That last leap is almost certainly the most difficult, and is the result of huge amounts of optimization. Another one, however, is likely revenue: AI Overviews currently have the blessing of investors because Google is reporting that they (1) aren’t necessarily being served on commercial queries and (2) when they are being served they are monetizing as well as regular search results.These two factors — performance and revenue impact — are hurdles that need to be overcome (along with safety; it was annoying the number of demos that were “with trusted testers”, hopefully to one day be graced upon us mere mortals); the push to overcome them comes from the fact that while AI Mode looks a bit like ChatGPT, the real race for Google is to make Search compelling enough that people don’t just switch to ChatGPT for everything. To that end, another metric that likely matters is actual usage: Pichai’s definition of the types of searches that are growing was very carefully delineated, but growth in general is certainly a good thing; if a feature drives AI Mode it may be a good candidate for the main Search page.Product PossibilitiesOne of the common refrains that came out after yesterday’s keynote was how Google just killed half of Silicon Valley’s startups. I’m not so sure, however.First, it’s clearer than ever to me that the onlyproductthat truly matters — or functions — at Google is Search. A lot of the demos we saw yesterday are likely to stay demos or, at best, be forgotten and eventually-killed products that no one uses.Second, the degree to which so many of the demoes yesterday depend on user volition actually kind of dampened my enthusiasm for their usefulness. It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closerto what I envision for XRthan Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.Third, these two points are exactly why I’m optimistic about Google Cloud: just because Google showed something was possible using their models doesn’t mean they need to be the ones actually productizing them; I think the best thing for Google, and the biggest opportunity for developers, will be in pushing to make sure that these capabilities are in the API ASAP.In short, I agree with what Microsoft CTO Kevin Scott said inthat interview with Nilay PatelthatI referenced yesterday:I think the thing that’s hard right now is I feel as if we’ve got this capability overhang with models where the models are actually capable of a lot more than what they’re being used for. And so, even inside of Microsoft, I maybe overestimated how quickly people were going to just lean all the way into the platform capabilities of the basic AI models. So I think we’re a little bit behind right now on product. And by we, I don’t mean Microsoft. I mean everybody, aside from this rapid progress we’re seeing in software development tools. So I think there are things in healthcare that could be a lot better than they are right now. A bunch of things are inhibited by some basic plumbing stuff, which is the topic of this particular conversation. But a lot of it is we just need a lot more companies to get created and a lot more products to get made just to use what’s already possible with these models.Google is doing a good job at making Search better; I see no reason to be worried about them making any other great product, even as the possibility of making something great with their models seems higher than ever. That’s good for startups!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyDateFriday, May 23, 2025Google and the Limits of StrategyDateWednesday, October 5, 2016Gemini 1.5 and Google’s NatureDateWednesday, April 10, 2024←The Agentic Web and Original SinOpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI’s Strategic Positioning, Apple’s Worsening AI Problem→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Google I/O, The Search Funnel, Product PossibilitiesWednesday, May 21, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the U.S. AI deals with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates; onlast Thursday’s episodewe discussed Airbnb’s expanded ambitions and the return of HBO Max.On to the Update:Google I/OFromReuters:Google said on Tuesday it would put artificial intelligence into the hands of more Web surfers while teasing a $249.99-a-month subscription for its AI power users, its latest effort to fend off growing competition from startups like OpenAI. Google unveiled the plans amid a flurry of demos that included new smart glasses during its annual I/O conference in Mountain View, California, which has adopted a tone of increased urgency since the rise of generative AI challenged the tech company’s longtime stronghold of organizing and retrieving information on the internet…In a major update, the company said consumers across the United States now can switch Google Search into “AI Mode.” Showcased in March as an experiment open to test users, the feature dispenses with the Web’s standard fare in favor of computer-generated answers for complicated queries. Google also announced an “AI Ultra Plan,” which for $249.99 monthly provides users with higher limits on AI and early access to experimental tools like Project Mariner, an internet browser extension that can automate keystrokes and mouse clicks, and Deep Think, a version of its top-shelf Gemini model that is more capable of reasoning through complicated tasks…Pichai told reporters that the rise of generative AI was not at the full expense of online search.This “feels very far from a zero-sum moment,” said Pichai. “The kind of use cases we are serving in search is dramatically expanding” because of AI.First off, my compliments to Reuters for this write-up; the amount of things announced or pre-announced or “envisioned” was pretty overwhelming:This was, to be sure, terribly impressive: we already know that Gemini 2.5 is awesome, and the company’s Imagen 4 image model and Veo 3 video model were significant leaps forward from just a few months ago.I wrote in Decemberwhen Veo 2 came out:The reason to focus on Veo 2, however, is not just that it strikes me as a seminal moment in generative AI history, but that it also is the most powerful manifestation of the advantages that Google has in this space. Think about the three pillars of generative AI:Algorithms:Google of course invented the transformer, but it certainly seems likely that the company figured out something important in terms of maintaining coherence (whichI complained about with Sora).Compute:Google is training and running inference on its own TPUs — which are increasingly developed in conjunction with its models (andJeff Dean said at NeurIPS that he thinks there are massive more gains to had with further specialization).Data:Data is shaping up to be the biggest obstacle for model development going forward; the single-greatest untapped resource is likely video generally, and YouTube in particular — which Google owns! I can certainly imagine this was an important resource for the development of Veo 2.What we saw over the last week was all of these resources being brought to bear, and the results are impressive.Google I/O was this on steroids, but at the same time — and I’m not sure if this was because of the sheer quantity of announcements — I came away feeling less impressed than I should have; I decided I needed to take the dog for a walk:I wanted, by the way, to tie these videos together into something more coherent; they’re both made using Veo 3 inGoogle Flow, the new product Google announced to utilize Veo. Unfortunately it’s extremely hard to use and very buggy, above-and-beyond the general challenges of linking together disparately generated videos while retaining coherence.This, in the end, makes the point that I ultimately came to on my walk: Google Flow was arguably the most archetypicalproductannouncement at Google I/O, but while Veo 3 is jaw-dropping, Flow was pretty disappointing. More generally, the generative AI pillars that I wrote about last December, the areas that Google dominates, notably don’t include generative AIproducts. And that, more than anything, was my I/O takeaway: Google technology is incredible, but I’m still not convinced this company can make compelling products. Indeed, my critique of the presentation as a whole was how unfocused and random it felt: Google’s inability to prioritize and set a coherent narrative actually diminished just how incredible their advances are.The Search FunnelThe one clear exception was smack dab in the middle of the keynote, which focused on Search; I don’t think it’s an accident that Google’s best and most important product had the clearest presentation and vision.CEO Sundar Pichai started with a brief overview of AI Overviews:It’s another exciting example of how AI is advancing our timeless mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. No product embodies our mission more than Google Search. It’s the reason we started investing in AI decades ago and how we can deliver its benefits scale of human curiosity. Our Gemini models are helping to make Google Search more intelligent, agentic, and personalized.One great example of progress is our AI Overviews. Since launching at I/O last year, they’ve scaled up to over 1.5 billion users every month in more than 200 countries and territories. As people use AI Overviews, we see they are happier with their results and they search more often. In our biggest markets like the US and India, AI Overviews are driving over 10% growth in the types of queries that show them. What’s particularly exciting is that this growth increases over time. It’s our most successful launch in search in the past decade.AI Overviews are also one of the strongest drivers of growth for visual searches in Google Lens. Lens grew 65% year over year, with more than 100 billion already this year. So people are asking more queries and they’re also asking more complex queries. With our latest Gemini models, our AI Overviews are at the quality and accuracy you’ve come to expect from search and are the fastest in the industry.AI Overviews are,as I pointed out after Google’s most recent earnings, the most used generative AI product in the world; most of today’s Search segment, however, was focused on the new AI Mode. AI Mode was introduced by Head of Search Liz Reid:Today you’ll see how you can ask anything, and more intelligent, agentic, and personalized search will take on your toughest questions and help you get stuff done. This is the future of Google Search, a search that goes beyond information to intelligence, and you’re starting to see this come to life already with AI Overviews, and AI Mode takes this to the next level. AI Mode is Search transformed with Gemini 2.5 at its core. It’s our most powerful AI search, able to tackle any question, and as Sundar announced, we’re excited to start rolling out AI Mode for everyone in the U.S., starting today. You’ll find it as a new tab directly in search or right from your search bar.AI Mode will be loaded up with all of our best AI features and capabilities. But it’s even more than that. It’s a glimpse of what’s to come. Over time, we’ll graduate many of AI Mode’s cutting-edge features and capabilities directly into the core search experience. That starts today, as we bring the same models that power AI Mode to power AI Overviews. So you can bring your hardest questions right to the search box.Today we’ll give you a tour of AI Mode, and you’ll see how it works and how it’s getting even better with personal context, deeper research, complex analysis and visualization, live multimodality, and new ways to shop.AI Mode is more of a chat-like interface, and all of the demos are impressive. They are also real, as in either available now or shipping soon, and all seem clearly useful. On-demand data visualization, for example, seems like such an obvious win for generative AI-powered search.The most interesting comment Reid made, however, is that paragraph in the middle: the real goal for AI Mode is to refine these features so that they can “graduate” to the core search experience. In other words, Google has a clearly defined “AI funnel”, which actually brings the coherence to this keynote that I was looking for. At the foundation of everything are those pillars I referenced above: Google’s incredible models, unmatched infrastructure, and data advantage (Reid’s discussion of personalizing AI Mode using your personal data was compelling as well). Then, you have a bunch of theoretical ideas that make for cool demo videos, but the actual productization that still functions in Google is on the Search team. That team takes ideas that work and puts them in AI Mode, and when they are ready, they make it into actual Search.What is interesting to think about is what the criteria might be for “graduation”. Obviously performance is a big one. There is a leap from a subscription-gated product page to a freely available product page to a tab on search results to being served by default to billions of users. That last leap is almost certainly the most difficult, and is the result of huge amounts of optimization. Another one, however, is likely revenue: AI Overviews currently have the blessing of investors because Google is reporting that they (1) aren’t necessarily being served on commercial queries and (2) when they are being served they are monetizing as well as regular search results.These two factors — performance and revenue impact — are hurdles that need to be overcome (along with safety; it was annoying the number of demos that were “with trusted testers”, hopefully to one day be graced upon us mere mortals); the push to overcome them comes from the fact that while AI Mode looks a bit like ChatGPT, the real race for Google is to make Search compelling enough that people don’t just switch to ChatGPT for everything. To that end, another metric that likely matters is actual usage: Pichai’s definition of the types of searches that are growing was very carefully delineated, but growth in general is certainly a good thing; if a feature drives AI Mode it may be a good candidate for the main Search page.Product PossibilitiesOne of the common refrains that came out after yesterday’s keynote was how Google just killed half of Silicon Valley’s startups. I’m not so sure, however.First, it’s clearer than ever to me that the onlyproductthat truly matters — or functions — at Google is Search. A lot of the demos we saw yesterday are likely to stay demos or, at best, be forgotten and eventually-killed products that no one uses.Second, the degree to which so many of the demoes yesterday depend on user volition actually kind of dampened my enthusiasm for their usefulness. It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closerto what I envision for XRthan Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.Third, these two points are exactly why I’m optimistic about Google Cloud: just because Google showed something was possible using their models doesn’t mean they need to be the ones actually productizing them; I think the best thing for Google, and the biggest opportunity for developers, will be in pushing to make sure that these capabilities are in the API ASAP.In short, I agree with what Microsoft CTO Kevin Scott said inthat interview with Nilay PatelthatI referenced yesterday:I think the thing that’s hard right now is I feel as if we’ve got this capability overhang with models where the models are actually capable of a lot more than what they’re being used for. And so, even inside of Microsoft, I maybe overestimated how quickly people were going to just lean all the way into the platform capabilities of the basic AI models. So I think we’re a little bit behind right now on product. And by we, I don’t mean Microsoft. I mean everybody, aside from this rapid progress we’re seeing in software development tools. So I think there are things in healthcare that could be a lot better than they are right now. A bunch of things are inhibited by some basic plumbing stuff, which is the topic of this particular conversation. But a lot of it is we just need a lot more companies to get created and a lot more products to get made just to use what’s already possible with these models.Google is doing a good job at making Search better; I see no reason to be worried about them making any other great product, even as the possibility of making something great with their models seems higher than ever. That’s good for startups!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyDateFriday, May 23, 2025Google and the Limits of StrategyDateWednesday, October 5, 2016Gemini 1.5 and Google’s NatureDateWednesday, April 10, 2024←The Agentic Web and Original SinOpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI’s Strategic Positioning, Apple’s Worsening AI Problem→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Google I/O, The Search Funnel, Product PossibilitiesWednesday, May 21, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the U.S. AI deals with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates; onlast Thursday’s episodewe discussed Airbnb’s expanded ambitions and the return of HBO Max.On to the Update:Google I/OFromReuters:Google said on Tuesday it would put artificial intelligence into the hands of more Web surfers while teasing a $249.99-a-month subscription for its AI power users, its latest effort to fend off growing competition from startups like OpenAI. Google unveiled the plans amid a flurry of demos that included new smart glasses during its annual I/O conference in Mountain View, California, which has adopted a tone of increased urgency since the rise of generative AI challenged the tech company’s longtime stronghold of organizing and retrieving information on the internet…In a major update, the company said consumers across the United States now can switch Google Search into “AI Mode.” Showcased in March as an experiment open to test users, the feature dispenses with the Web’s standard fare in favor of computer-generated answers for complicated queries. Google also announced an “AI Ultra Plan,” which for $249.99 monthly provides users with higher limits on AI and early access to experimental tools like Project Mariner, an internet browser extension that can automate keystrokes and mouse clicks, and Deep Think, a version of its top-shelf Gemini model that is more capable of reasoning through complicated tasks…Pichai told reporters that the rise of generative AI was not at the full expense of online search.This “feels very far from a zero-sum moment,” said Pichai. “The kind of use cases we are serving in search is dramatically expanding” because of AI.First off, my compliments to Reuters for this write-up; the amount of things announced or pre-announced or “envisioned” was pretty overwhelming:This was, to be sure, terribly impressive: we already know that Gemini 2.5 is awesome, and the company’s Imagen 4 image model and Veo 3 video model were significant leaps forward from just a few months ago.I wrote in Decemberwhen Veo 2 came out:The reason to focus on Veo 2, however, is not just that it strikes me as a seminal moment in generative AI history, but that it also is the most powerful manifestation of the advantages that Google has in this space. Think about the three pillars of generative AI:Algorithms:Google of course invented the transformer, but it certainly seems likely that the company figured out something important in terms of maintaining coherence (whichI complained about with Sora).Compute:Google is training and running inference on its own TPUs — which are increasingly developed in conjunction with its models (andJeff Dean said at NeurIPS that he thinks there are massive more gains to had with further specialization).Data:Data is shaping up to be the biggest obstacle for model development going forward; the single-greatest untapped resource is likely video generally, and YouTube in particular — which Google owns! I can certainly imagine this was an important resource for the development of Veo 2.What we saw over the last week was all of these resources being brought to bear, and the results are impressive.Google I/O was this on steroids, but at the same time — and I’m not sure if this was because of the sheer quantity of announcements — I came away feeling less impressed than I should have; I decided I needed to take the dog for a walk:I wanted, by the way, to tie these videos together into something more coherent; they’re both made using Veo 3 inGoogle Flow, the new product Google announced to utilize Veo. Unfortunately it’s extremely hard to use and very buggy, above-and-beyond the general challenges of linking together disparately generated videos while retaining coherence.This, in the end, makes the point that I ultimately came to on my walk: Google Flow was arguably the most archetypicalproductannouncement at Google I/O, but while Veo 3 is jaw-dropping, Flow was pretty disappointing. More generally, the generative AI pillars that I wrote about last December, the areas that Google dominates, notably don’t include generative AIproducts. And that, more than anything, was my I/O takeaway: Google technology is incredible, but I’m still not convinced this company can make compelling products. Indeed, my critique of the presentation as a whole was how unfocused and random it felt: Google’s inability to prioritize and set a coherent narrative actually diminished just how incredible their advances are.The Search FunnelThe one clear exception was smack dab in the middle of the keynote, which focused on Search; I don’t think it’s an accident that Google’s best and most important product had the clearest presentation and vision.CEO Sundar Pichai started with a brief overview of AI Overviews:It’s another exciting example of how AI is advancing our timeless mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. No product embodies our mission more than Google Search. It’s the reason we started investing in AI decades ago and how we can deliver its benefits scale of human curiosity. Our Gemini models are helping to make Google Search more intelligent, agentic, and personalized.One great example of progress is our AI Overviews. Since launching at I/O last year, they’ve scaled up to over 1.5 billion users every month in more than 200 countries and territories. As people use AI Overviews, we see they are happier with their results and they search more often. In our biggest markets like the US and India, AI Overviews are driving over 10% growth in the types of queries that show them. What’s particularly exciting is that this growth increases over time. It’s our most successful launch in search in the past decade.AI Overviews are also one of the strongest drivers of growth for visual searches in Google Lens. Lens grew 65% year over year, with more than 100 billion already this year. So people are asking more queries and they’re also asking more complex queries. With our latest Gemini models, our AI Overviews are at the quality and accuracy you’ve come to expect from search and are the fastest in the industry.AI Overviews are,as I pointed out after Google’s most recent earnings, the most used generative AI product in the world; most of today’s Search segment, however, was focused on the new AI Mode. AI Mode was introduced by Head of Search Liz Reid:Today you’ll see how you can ask anything, and more intelligent, agentic, and personalized search will take on your toughest questions and help you get stuff done. This is the future of Google Search, a search that goes beyond information to intelligence, and you’re starting to see this come to life already with AI Overviews, and AI Mode takes this to the next level. AI Mode is Search transformed with Gemini 2.5 at its core. It’s our most powerful AI search, able to tackle any question, and as Sundar announced, we’re excited to start rolling out AI Mode for everyone in the U.S., starting today. You’ll find it as a new tab directly in search or right from your search bar.AI Mode will be loaded up with all of our best AI features and capabilities. But it’s even more than that. It’s a glimpse of what’s to come. Over time, we’ll graduate many of AI Mode’s cutting-edge features and capabilities directly into the core search experience. That starts today, as we bring the same models that power AI Mode to power AI Overviews. So you can bring your hardest questions right to the search box.Today we’ll give you a tour of AI Mode, and you’ll see how it works and how it’s getting even better with personal context, deeper research, complex analysis and visualization, live multimodality, and new ways to shop.AI Mode is more of a chat-like interface, and all of the demos are impressive. They are also real, as in either available now or shipping soon, and all seem clearly useful. On-demand data visualization, for example, seems like such an obvious win for generative AI-powered search.The most interesting comment Reid made, however, is that paragraph in the middle: the real goal for AI Mode is to refine these features so that they can “graduate” to the core search experience. In other words, Google has a clearly defined “AI funnel”, which actually brings the coherence to this keynote that I was looking for. At the foundation of everything are those pillars I referenced above: Google’s incredible models, unmatched infrastructure, and data advantage (Reid’s discussion of personalizing AI Mode using your personal data was compelling as well). Then, you have a bunch of theoretical ideas that make for cool demo videos, but the actual productization that still functions in Google is on the Search team. That team takes ideas that work and puts them in AI Mode, and when they are ready, they make it into actual Search.What is interesting to think about is what the criteria might be for “graduation”. Obviously performance is a big one. There is a leap from a subscription-gated product page to a freely available product page to a tab on search results to being served by default to billions of users. That last leap is almost certainly the most difficult, and is the result of huge amounts of optimization. Another one, however, is likely revenue: AI Overviews currently have the blessing of investors because Google is reporting that they (1) aren’t necessarily being served on commercial queries and (2) when they are being served they are monetizing as well as regular search results.These two factors — performance and revenue impact — are hurdles that need to be overcome (along with safety; it was annoying the number of demos that were “with trusted testers”, hopefully to one day be graced upon us mere mortals); the push to overcome them comes from the fact that while AI Mode looks a bit like ChatGPT, the real race for Google is to make Search compelling enough that people don’t just switch to ChatGPT for everything. To that end, another metric that likely matters is actual usage: Pichai’s definition of the types of searches that are growing was very carefully delineated, but growth in general is certainly a good thing; if a feature drives AI Mode it may be a good candidate for the main Search page.Product PossibilitiesOne of the common refrains that came out after yesterday’s keynote was how Google just killed half of Silicon Valley’s startups. I’m not so sure, however.First, it’s clearer than ever to me that the onlyproductthat truly matters — or functions — at Google is Search. A lot of the demos we saw yesterday are likely to stay demos or, at best, be forgotten and eventually-killed products that no one uses.Second, the degree to which so many of the demoes yesterday depend on user volition actually kind of dampened my enthusiasm for their usefulness. It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closerto what I envision for XRthan Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.Third, these two points are exactly why I’m optimistic about Google Cloud: just because Google showed something was possible using their models doesn’t mean they need to be the ones actually productizing them; I think the best thing for Google, and the biggest opportunity for developers, will be in pushing to make sure that these capabilities are in the API ASAP.In short, I agree with what Microsoft CTO Kevin Scott said inthat interview with Nilay PatelthatI referenced yesterday:I think the thing that’s hard right now is I feel as if we’ve got this capability overhang with models where the models are actually capable of a lot more than what they’re being used for. And so, even inside of Microsoft, I maybe overestimated how quickly people were going to just lean all the way into the platform capabilities of the basic AI models. So I think we’re a little bit behind right now on product. And by we, I don’t mean Microsoft. I mean everybody, aside from this rapid progress we’re seeing in software development tools. So I think there are things in healthcare that could be a lot better than they are right now. A bunch of things are inhibited by some basic plumbing stuff, which is the topic of this particular conversation. But a lot of it is we just need a lot more companies to get created and a lot more products to get made just to use what’s already possible with these models.Google is doing a good job at making Search better; I see no reason to be worried about them making any other great product, even as the possibility of making something great with their models seems higher than ever. That’s good for startups!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyDateFriday, May 23, 2025Google and the Limits of StrategyDateWednesday, October 5, 2016Gemini 1.5 and Google’s NatureDateWednesday, April 10, 2024←The Agentic Web and Original SinOpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI’s Strategic Positioning, Apple’s Worsening AI Problem→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the U.S. AI deals with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates; onlast Thursday’s episodewe discussed Airbnb’s expanded ambitions and the return of HBO Max.On to the Update:Google I/OFromReuters:Google said on Tuesday it would put artificial intelligence into the hands of more Web surfers while teasing a $249.99-a-month subscription for its AI power users, its latest effort to fend off growing competition from startups like OpenAI. Google unveiled the plans amid a flurry of demos that included new smart glasses during its annual I/O conference in Mountain View, California, which has adopted a tone of increased urgency since the rise of generative AI challenged the tech company’s longtime stronghold of organizing and retrieving information on the internet…In a major update, the company said consumers across the United States now can switch Google Search into “AI Mode.” Showcased in March as an experiment open to test users, the feature dispenses with the Web’s standard fare in favor of computer-generated answers for complicated queries. Google also announced an “AI Ultra Plan,” which for $249.99 monthly provides users with higher limits on AI and early access to experimental tools like Project Mariner, an internet browser extension that can automate keystrokes and mouse clicks, and Deep Think, a version of its top-shelf Gemini model that is more capable of reasoning through complicated tasks…Pichai told reporters that the rise of generative AI was not at the full expense of online search.This “feels very far from a zero-sum moment,” said Pichai. “The kind of use cases we are serving in search is dramatically expanding” because of AI.First off, my compliments to Reuters for this write-up; the amount of things announced or pre-announced or “envisioned” was pretty overwhelming:This was, to be sure, terribly impressive: we already know that Gemini 2.5 is awesome, and the company’s Imagen 4 image model and Veo 3 video model were significant leaps forward from just a few months ago.I wrote in Decemberwhen Veo 2 came out:The reason to focus on Veo 2, however, is not just that it strikes me as a seminal moment in generative AI history, but that it also is the most powerful manifestation of the advantages that Google has in this space. Think about the three pillars of generative AI:Algorithms:Google of course invented the transformer, but it certainly seems likely that the company figured out something important in terms of maintaining coherence (whichI complained about with Sora).Compute:Google is training and running inference on its own TPUs — which are increasingly developed in conjunction with its models (andJeff Dean said at NeurIPS that he thinks there are massive more gains to had with further specialization).Data:Data is shaping up to be the biggest obstacle for model development going forward; the single-greatest untapped resource is likely video generally, and YouTube in particular — which Google owns! I can certainly imagine this was an important resource for the development of Veo 2.What we saw over the last week was all of these resources being brought to bear, and the results are impressive.Google I/O was this on steroids, but at the same time — and I’m not sure if this was because of the sheer quantity of announcements — I came away feeling less impressed than I should have; I decided I needed to take the dog for a walk:I wanted, by the way, to tie these videos together into something more coherent; they’re both made using Veo 3 inGoogle Flow, the new product Google announced to utilize Veo. Unfortunately it’s extremely hard to use and very buggy, above-and-beyond the general challenges of linking together disparately generated videos while retaining coherence.This, in the end, makes the point that I ultimately came to on my walk: Google Flow was arguably the most archetypicalproductannouncement at Google I/O, but while Veo 3 is jaw-dropping, Flow was pretty disappointing. More generally, the generative AI pillars that I wrote about last December, the areas that Google dominates, notably don’t include generative AIproducts. And that, more than anything, was my I/O takeaway: Google technology is incredible, but I’m still not convinced this company can make compelling products. Indeed, my critique of the presentation as a whole was how unfocused and random it felt: Google’s inability to prioritize and set a coherent narrative actually diminished just how incredible their advances are.The Search FunnelThe one clear exception was smack dab in the middle of the keynote, which focused on Search; I don’t think it’s an accident that Google’s best and most important product had the clearest presentation and vision.CEO Sundar Pichai started with a brief overview of AI Overviews:It’s another exciting example of how AI is advancing our timeless mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. No product embodies our mission more than Google Search. It’s the reason we started investing in AI decades ago and how we can deliver its benefits scale of human curiosity. Our Gemini models are helping to make Google Search more intelligent, agentic, and personalized.One great example of progress is our AI Overviews. Since launching at I/O last year, they’ve scaled up to over 1.5 billion users every month in more than 200 countries and territories. As people use AI Overviews, we see they are happier with their results and they search more often. In our biggest markets like the US and India, AI Overviews are driving over 10% growth in the types of queries that show them. What’s particularly exciting is that this growth increases over time. It’s our most successful launch in search in the past decade.AI Overviews are also one of the strongest drivers of growth for visual searches in Google Lens. Lens grew 65% year over year, with more than 100 billion already this year. So people are asking more queries and they’re also asking more complex queries. With our latest Gemini models, our AI Overviews are at the quality and accuracy you’ve come to expect from search and are the fastest in the industry.AI Overviews are,as I pointed out after Google’s most recent earnings, the most used generative AI product in the world; most of today’s Search segment, however, was focused on the new AI Mode. AI Mode was introduced by Head of Search Liz Reid:Today you’ll see how you can ask anything, and more intelligent, agentic, and personalized search will take on your toughest questions and help you get stuff done. This is the future of Google Search, a search that goes beyond information to intelligence, and you’re starting to see this come to life already with AI Overviews, and AI Mode takes this to the next level. AI Mode is Search transformed with Gemini 2.5 at its core. It’s our most powerful AI search, able to tackle any question, and as Sundar announced, we’re excited to start rolling out AI Mode for everyone in the U.S., starting today. You’ll find it as a new tab directly in search or right from your search bar.AI Mode will be loaded up with all of our best AI features and capabilities. But it’s even more than that. It’s a glimpse of what’s to come. Over time, we’ll graduate many of AI Mode’s cutting-edge features and capabilities directly into the core search experience. That starts today, as we bring the same models that power AI Mode to power AI Overviews. So you can bring your hardest questions right to the search box.Today we’ll give you a tour of AI Mode, and you’ll see how it works and how it’s getting even better with personal context, deeper research, complex analysis and visualization, live multimodality, and new ways to shop.AI Mode is more of a chat-like interface, and all of the demos are impressive. They are also real, as in either available now or shipping soon, and all seem clearly useful. On-demand data visualization, for example, seems like such an obvious win for generative AI-powered search.The most interesting comment Reid made, however, is that paragraph in the middle: the real goal for AI Mode is to refine these features so that they can “graduate” to the core search experience. In other words, Google has a clearly defined “AI funnel”, which actually brings the coherence to this keynote that I was looking for. At the foundation of everything are those pillars I referenced above: Google’s incredible models, unmatched infrastructure, and data advantage (Reid’s discussion of personalizing AI Mode using your personal data was compelling as well). Then, you have a bunch of theoretical ideas that make for cool demo videos, but the actual productization that still functions in Google is on the Search team. That team takes ideas that work and puts them in AI Mode, and when they are ready, they make it into actual Search.What is interesting to think about is what the criteria might be for “graduation”. Obviously performance is a big one. There is a leap from a subscription-gated product page to a freely available product page to a tab on search results to being served by default to billions of users. That last leap is almost certainly the most difficult, and is the result of huge amounts of optimization. Another one, however, is likely revenue: AI Overviews currently have the blessing of investors because Google is reporting that they (1) aren’t necessarily being served on commercial queries and (2) when they are being served they are monetizing as well as regular search results.These two factors — performance and revenue impact — are hurdles that need to be overcome (along with safety; it was annoying the number of demos that were “with trusted testers”, hopefully to one day be graced upon us mere mortals); the push to overcome them comes from the fact that while AI Mode looks a bit like ChatGPT, the real race for Google is to make Search compelling enough that people don’t just switch to ChatGPT for everything. To that end, another metric that likely matters is actual usage: Pichai’s definition of the types of searches that are growing was very carefully delineated, but growth in general is certainly a good thing; if a feature drives AI Mode it may be a good candidate for the main Search page.Product PossibilitiesOne of the common refrains that came out after yesterday’s keynote was how Google just killed half of Silicon Valley’s startups. I’m not so sure, however.First, it’s clearer than ever to me that the onlyproductthat truly matters — or functions — at Google is Search. A lot of the demos we saw yesterday are likely to stay demos or, at best, be forgotten and eventually-killed products that no one uses.Second, the degree to which so many of the demoes yesterday depend on user volition actually kind of dampened my enthusiasm for their usefulness. It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closerto what I envision for XRthan Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.Third, these two points are exactly why I’m optimistic about Google Cloud: just because Google showed something was possible using their models doesn’t mean they need to be the ones actually productizing them; I think the best thing for Google, and the biggest opportunity for developers, will be in pushing to make sure that these capabilities are in the API ASAP.In short, I agree with what Microsoft CTO Kevin Scott said inthat interview with Nilay PatelthatI referenced yesterday:I think the thing that’s hard right now is I feel as if we’ve got this capability overhang with models where the models are actually capable of a lot more than what they’re being used for. And so, even inside of Microsoft, I maybe overestimated how quickly people were going to just lean all the way into the platform capabilities of the basic AI models. So I think we’re a little bit behind right now on product. And by we, I don’t mean Microsoft. I mean everybody, aside from this rapid progress we’re seeing in software development tools. So I think there are things in healthcare that could be a lot better than they are right now. A bunch of things are inhibited by some basic plumbing stuff, which is the topic of this particular conversation. But a lot of it is we just need a lot more companies to get created and a lot more products to get made just to use what’s already possible with these models.Google is doing a good job at making Search better; I see no reason to be worried about them making any other great product, even as the possibility of making something great with their models seems higher than ever. That’s good for startups!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the U.S. AI deals with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates; onlast Thursday’s episodewe discussed Airbnb’s expanded ambitions and the return of HBO Max. Google said on Tuesday it would put artificial intelligence into the hands of more Web surfers while teasing a $249.99-a-month subscription for its AI power users, its latest effort to fend off growing competition from startups like OpenAI. Google unveiled the plans amid a flurry of demos that included new smart glasses during its annual I/O conference in Mountain View, California, which has adopted a tone of increased urgency since the rise of generative AI challenged the tech company’s longtime stronghold of organizing and retrieving information on the internet… In a major update, the company said consumers across the United States now can switch Google Search into “AI Mode.” Showcased in March as an experiment open to test users, the feature dispenses with the Web’s standard fare in favor of computer-generated answers for complicated queries. Google also announced an “AI Ultra Plan,” which for $249.99 monthly provides users with higher limits on AI and early access to experimental tools like Project Mariner, an internet browser extension that can automate keystrokes and mouse clicks, and Deep Think, a version of its top-shelf Gemini model that is more capable of reasoning through complicated tasks… This was, to be sure, terribly impressive: we already know that Gemini 2.5 is awesome, and the company’s Imagen 4 image model and Veo 3 video model were significant leaps forward from just a few months ago.I wrote in Decemberwhen Veo 2 came out: The reason to focus on Veo 2, however, is not just that it strikes me as a seminal moment in generative AI history, but that it also is the most powerful manifestation of the advantages that Google has in this space. Think about the three pillars of generative AI: Google I/O was this on steroids, but at the same time — and I’m not sure if this was because of the sheer quantity of announcements — I came away feeling less impressed than I should have; I decided I needed to take the dog for a walk: I wanted, by the way, to tie these videos together into something more coherent; they’re both made using Veo 3 inGoogle Flow, the new product Google announced to utilize Veo. Unfortunately it’s extremely hard to use and very buggy, above-and-beyond the general challenges of linking together disparately generated videos while retaining coherence. This, in the end, makes the point that I ultimately came to on my walk: Google Flow was arguably the most archetypicalproductannouncement at Google I/O, but while Veo 3 is jaw-dropping, Flow was pretty disappointing. More generally, the generative AI pillars that I wrote about last December, the areas that Google dominates, notably don’t include generative AIproducts. And that, more than anything, was my I/O takeaway: Google technology is incredible, but I’m still not convinced this company can make compelling products. Indeed, my critique of the presentation as a whole was how unfocused and random it felt: Google’s inability to prioritize and set a coherent narrative actually diminished just how incredible their advances are. The one clear exception was smack dab in the middle of the keynote, which focused on Search; I don’t think it’s an accident that Google’s best and most important product had the clearest presentation and vision. It’s another exciting example of how AI is advancing our timeless mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. No product embodies our mission more than Google Search. It’s the reason we started investing in AI decades ago and how we can deliver its benefits scale of human curiosity. Our Gemini models are helping to make Google Search more intelligent, agentic, and personalized. One great example of progress is our AI Overviews. Since launching at I/O last year, they’ve scaled up to over 1.5 billion users every month in more than 200 countries and territories. As people use AI Overviews, we see they are happier with their results and they search more often. In our biggest markets like the US and India, AI Overviews are driving over 10% growth in the types of queries that show them. What’s particularly exciting is that this growth increases over time. It’s our most successful launch in search in the past decade. AI Overviews are also one of the strongest drivers of growth for visual searches in Google Lens. Lens grew 65% year over year, with more than 100 billion already this year. So people are asking more queries and they’re also asking more complex queries. With our latest Gemini models, our AI Overviews are at the quality and accuracy you’ve come to expect from search and are the fastest in the industry. AI Overviews are,as I pointed out after Google’s most recent earnings, the most used generative AI product in the world; most of today’s Search segment, however, was focused on the new AI Mode. AI Mode was introduced by Head of Search Liz Reid: Today you’ll see how you can ask anything, and more intelligent, agentic, and personalized search will take on your toughest questions and help you get stuff done. This is the future of Google Search, a search that goes beyond information to intelligence, and you’re starting to see this come to life already with AI Overviews, and AI Mode takes this to the next level. AI Mode is Search transformed with Gemini 2.5 at its core. It’s our most powerful AI search, able to tackle any question, and as Sundar announced, we’re excited to start rolling out AI Mode for everyone in the U.S., starting today. You’ll find it as a new tab directly in search or right from your search bar. AI Mode will be loaded up with all of our best AI features and capabilities. But it’s even more than that. It’s a glimpse of what’s to come. Over time, we’ll graduate many of AI Mode’s cutting-edge features and capabilities directly into the core search experience. That starts today, as we bring the same models that power AI Mode to power AI Overviews. So you can bring your hardest questions right to the search box. Today we’ll give you a tour of AI Mode, and you’ll see how it works and how it’s getting even better with personal context, deeper research, complex analysis and visualization, live multimodality, and new ways to shop. AI Mode is more of a chat-like interface, and all of the demos are impressive. They are also real, as in either available now or shipping soon, and all seem clearly useful. On-demand data visualization, for example, seems like such an obvious win for generative AI-powered search. The most interesting comment Reid made, however, is that paragraph in the middle: the real goal for AI Mode is to refine these features so that they can “graduate” to the core search experience. In other words, Google has a clearly defined “AI funnel”, which actually brings the coherence to this keynote that I was looking for. At the foundation of everything are those pillars I referenced above: Google’s incredible models, unmatched infrastructure, and data advantage (Reid’s discussion of personalizing AI Mode using your personal data was compelling as well). Then, you have a bunch of theoretical ideas that make for cool demo videos, but the actual productization that still functions in Google is on the Search team. That team takes ideas that work and puts them in AI Mode, and when they are ready, they make it into actual Search. What is interesting to think about is what the criteria might be for “graduation”. Obviously performance is a big one. There is a leap from a subscription-gated product page to a freely available product page to a tab on search results to being served by default to billions of users. That last leap is almost certainly the most difficult, and is the result of huge amounts of optimization. Another one, however, is likely revenue: AI Overviews currently have the blessing of investors because Google is reporting that they (1) aren’t necessarily being served on commercial queries and (2) when they are being served they are monetizing as well as regular search results. These two factors — performance and revenue impact — are hurdles that need to be overcome (along with safety; it was annoying the number of demos that were “with trusted testers”, hopefully to one day be graced upon us mere mortals); the push to overcome them comes from the fact that while AI Mode looks a bit like ChatGPT, the real race for Google is to make Search compelling enough that people don’t just switch to ChatGPT for everything. To that end, another metric that likely matters is actual usage: Pichai’s definition of the types of searches that are growing was very carefully delineated, but growth in general is certainly a good thing; if a feature drives AI Mode it may be a good candidate for the main Search page. First, it’s clearer than ever to me that the onlyproductthat truly matters — or functions — at Google is Search. A lot of the demos we saw yesterday are likely to stay demos or, at best, be forgotten and eventually-killed products that no one uses. Second, the degree to which so many of the demoes yesterday depend on user volition actually kind of dampened my enthusiasm for their usefulness. It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closerto what I envision for XRthan Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever. Third, these two points are exactly why I’m optimistic about Google Cloud: just because Google showed something was possible using their models doesn’t mean they need to be the ones actually productizing them; I think the best thing for Google, and the biggest opportunity for developers, will be in pushing to make sure that these capabilities are in the API ASAP. I think the thing that’s hard right now is I feel as if we’ve got this capability overhang with models where the models are actually capable of a lot more than what they’re being used for. And so, even inside of Microsoft, I maybe overestimated how quickly people were going to just lean all the way into the platform capabilities of the basic AI models. So I think we’re a little bit behind right now on product. And by we, I don’t mean Microsoft. I mean everybody, aside from this rapid progress we’re seeing in software development tools. So I think there are things in healthcare that could be a lot better than they are right now. A bunch of things are inhibited by some basic plumbing stuff, which is the topic of this particular conversation. But a lot of it is we just need a lot more companies to get created and a lot more products to get made just to use what’s already possible with these models. Google is doing a good job at making Search better; I see no reason to be worried about them making any other great product, even as the possibility of making something great with their models seems higher than ever. That’s good for startups! The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025