# [PODCAST] Tech For Trump, Breaking the Deal, From Inertness to Interest

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/tech-for-trump-breaking-the-deal-from-inertness-to-interest/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.PZ0Qv-zu18e3Jab27aF9cAmRBhiL8EFZaAHzMc3rHcueDGXStu0H3OnQSNJXTd_QHnTqDe8euu9xIvLMo1pn9OPdqaKKn78Ep5eqyPuclKVJMx4ZCPpj0FkMeS_ftQE6EnuqH2HMIu20tbTXzXPnwqlaEI7lrIa0lnb9izzYWMldTBInYgipaCZIKwpx4LdjBH6MJvDVflWtBnCbRZlR7pOoDAyNMMIEcI7ncxaQJVM7GBi0SQB5J_IT607E7Yknn8Btc2qzH3e7BCN1c4RkR5YXzzQ4hmyLF1_0m_-SUlzja1BUAsOp6VqfBCdfVeZiEVs4aMid53MPbwYxPckOgA
**Atlas ID**: 229726
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.957175

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirTech For Trump, Breaking the Deal, From Inertness to InterestWednesday, July 17, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss China’s upcoming Third Plenum and why it may offer the clearest indication yet of Xi Jinping’s ultimate vision for the Party and PRC.On to the Update:Tech For TrumpFromThe Information:Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, who run one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent venture capital firms, have told the firm’s employees in recent days they plan to make large donations to political action committees supporting the election of Donald Trump, people familiar with the matter said. The planned donations by Andreessen and Horowitz, who run the eponymous VC firm behind influential startups like OpenAI, SpaceX and Anduril, would add to the number of big-name tech investors and executives that have lined up to support the former president. Neither Andreessen or Horowitz have previously said publicly they would support Trump.That was rectified shortly thereafter, when Andreessen and Horowitzreleased a podcastexplicitly endorsing President Trump and explaining their rationale; a day earlierElon Musk announced significant financial supportof Trump’s campaign, afterexplicitly endorsing himon Saturday shortly after the former president narrowly escaped assassination.Musk’s increasingly conservative turn has been well documented, by Musk himself on his prolific X account. What is worth pointing out is that from an analytical viewpoint, which considers Musk’s personal and business interests, this is an entirely rational and understandable shift. The Biden administration famouslyexcluded Tesla from its electric vehicle initiatives, probably because Tesla isn’t unionized, but the real shift appeared to come after Musk acquired Twitter, when Musk-controlled entities were hit with a host of federal investigations ranging fromTesla allegedly buildling Musk a secret house,SpaceX not hiring asylees and refugees(despite SpaceX being governed by strict rules around citizenship given its national security importance),X not abiding by its FTC consent decree,Tesla requiring uniforms, andSpaceX launch impacts on wildlife. I’m not commenting on the validity of these accusations, just noting that, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Musk is endorsing President Biden’s opponent.You can make a similarly dispassionate analysis of Andreessen and Horowitz; after making the (valid!) case that America’s might is founded on technological leadership, which drives economic and military power, and further making the case that startups provide that technological leadership, Andreessen and Horowitz lay out specific areas where they disagree with the Biden administration:Crypto, which they argue is essential to escaping the control of Aggregators, and which they say is being nefariously targeted by the SEC and FDIC, while being explicitly supported by Trump in theRNC platform.AI, where they argue theBiden executive orderpoints to a future that locks in the incumbents as permanent monopolies, whichTrump promises to repeal.General frustration with the administration in areas ranging from fintech, biotech, and energy.President Biden’s proposal totax unrealized gains, which they argue completely destroys the venture capital ecosystem, predicated as it is on increasing valuations that may or may not ultimately materialize; notably Andreessen and Horowitz explicitly say they are not arguing about the so-called “carried interest loophole”, as that is a tax rate question and not a structural issue.The point here is not whether or not you agree with Andreessen and Horowitz (although I definitely do in terms of AI and taxing unrealized gains in particular); rather, as with Musk, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Andreessen and Horowitz are endorsing President Biden’s opponent.Of course, though, things aren’t necessarily equal, because President Biden’s opponent is President Trump.Breaking the DealThis is why the most interesting part of the Andreessen and Horowitz podcast actually came at the beginning, when Andreessen explained why he had long supported Democrats for President (I have edited the transcript lightly for readability; the precise transcript ishere):MA:I actually endorsed Hillary Clinton in 2016 publicly for what I thought were a variety of good reasons. And the way I would describe it is, I’m Gen X, I kind of came of age in the 90s as an entrepreneur. Almost everybody I knew, including myself, just took it for granted, which is like, of course, you’re a Democrat. Of course, you support the Democratic president. And the answer is the formula resolves to an easy answer, which is the Democrats in those days, you know, presidential level were pro-business, they were pro-tech, they were pro-startup. They were pro-America winning in tech markets. They were pro-entrepreneurship. And so you could start a company. They were pro-business. You could be in business. You could be successful in business. You could make a lot of money. And then you give the money away in philanthropy and you get enormous credit for that. And, you know, it absolves you of whatever.BH:Yeah, well, I was going to say, like, it’s obvious you’re to be a Democrat because you have to be to be a good person. That’s kind of the underlying thing.MA:But specifically successful business people could then basically become successful philanthropists. This is the path that Gates and many others kind of carved out. And then you could be progressive on social issues, and you could be on the right side of all these sort of societal changes that people were kind of focused on at the time. And the whole thing just seemed completely obvious and completely easy. So I was kind of on that path, frankly, quite strongly through at least 2016.In retrospect, it’s like there were glimmers of, I’d say, growing anti-tech, I would say animus, probably in the early 2010s. And there were growing kind of anti-business sentiments. And then by the way, something that really disturbed me a while back is sort of growing anti-philanthropy sentiments, which we probably won’t discuss it like today.BH:Oh, well, yeah. Well, with people who made a lot of money, who gave money away, got criticized for giving money away to charitable causes as opposed to paying more taxes. Kind of a funny life jealousy taken to the extreme, yeah.MA:A specific moment that happened to me to make me realize the landscape was shifting was when Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan set up the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative where they literally committed to 99 of their assets going to the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, there was a political faction that basically heavily criticized them, and the theory, number one is to your point, the theory was that they should they should pay it in taxes and the government should distribute the money, they shouldn’t have any control over where it goes, but the other was oh they’re only doing it for a tax break.BH:Yeah, which wasn’t true.MA:Well, it can be. It can’t be true because you’re giving away 99% of your assets to get a tax break. Like it literally doesn’t make sense.BH:It’s like people bad at math and jealous.MA:Exactly. And so like basically like that formula started to break down. And so, you know, I think like a lot of us in tech, it’s been a much more difficult puzzle to try to figure this all out over the over the last eight years and then particularly over the last four years.Kelsey Piper of Vox picked up on this segment as well; from X:I think “there was a deal and it has broken down” is an incredibly powerful and pervasive sentiment in tech, not just among Trump supporters but among committed and sincere liberals too.linkWhat was the deal? Hard to pin down exactly but something like – we will build ambitious things and pay high taxes and donate lots of money and mostly not play politics and you will treat us as valued pillars of our community, make our cities livable, stay mostly out of the way.linkThe abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech felt like a breakdown of the deal. The attacks on tech shuttle buses? Breakdown of the deal. The state of San Francisco? Breakdown of the deal.linkLike all narratives this one captures some things and misses others. And I don’t think that putting corrupt right wing nativists in power solves the justified anger here. But there is justified anger here. California politicians have egregiously failed their constituents.linkIn my mind that third tweet, about “the abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech”, is where the Trump factor comes in. Days after President Trump’s election in 2016, Zuckerberg pushed back on the idea thatfake newstipped the election. FromThe Verge:After a day of criticism over his company’s role in spreading fake news about political candidates, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg rejected the idea that the News Feed had tilted the election in favor of Donald Trump. “Personally I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way — I think is a pretty crazy idea. Voters make decisions based on their lived experience.”Zuckerberg was speaking at the Technonomy conference, where interviewer David Kirkpatrick pressed him on Facebook’s growing power as a distributor of news and information. He said people who reacted with shock to Trump’s victory had underestimated his support. “I do think there is a certain profound lack of empathy in asserting that the only reason someone could have voted the way they did is they saw some fake news,” Zuckerberg said. “If you believe that, then I don’t think you have internalized the message the Trump supporters are trying to send in this election.”This statement, for whatever reason, solved a burgeoning problem on the political left; inFacebook’s Political Problems, after quoting fromThe Voters Decide(which made the case that the Internet, by weakening the media, ultimately decreased power for political parties), I wrote:These dynamics were in many respects the same as the advertising dynamics I described above: on Facebook both small companies and large companies have an equal shot at customers, and both Party insiders and complete outsiders have an equal shot at voters. Moreover, it’s a dynamic that is even greater when combined: Trump famously used Facebook advertising to far greater effect than the Clinton campaign. And, at the same time, the New York Times, itself demoted to another attention seeker in a Facebook world, famously spent huge amounts of time on Clinton’s emails.What seems clear in retrospect is that the latter two entities made peace (and avoided introspection) by making Facebook the scapegoat for Trump’s election. This was true in a way — Facebook created the conditions for someone like Trump to win — but the furor that followed suggested something much more explicit: within days the conversation was about Fake News and Russian influence being the key factors, not campaign mistakes and questionable coverage decisions, and certainly not the fundamental way that the media environment had changed.This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story. I noted inan October 2020 Updatethat this was costing tech its natural allies in Washington:This hearing only emphasized this point, and, to be frank, the New York Post episode has only added credence to the Republican’s argument (moreover, the degree to which Democrats exhorted the three CEOs to act more forcefully — in their favor, of course — only augmented said argument). Tech as a whole does itself a disservice dismissing what these hearings represent with a hand-wave of “same old same old”; the industry is running out of allies in government, and it is their natural allies, the Republicans, that increasingly have the more compelling argument about tech’s power going too far.This is how you end up witha Republican vice-presidential candidate strongly supporting the current FTC’s aggressive attempts to prosecute big tech for antitrust violations; setting that aside, though — we’re talking about the “Little Tech” proponents here, not “Big Tech” — the fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege.From Inertness to InterestThe point here is not to render judgment about the various charges against tech and its impact on society;I have been outspokenabout the importance of external scrutiny of tech, even when it seems unfair. Rather, the reason to recount what has happened over the last eight years is to point out that the shift in tech we are seeing — and to be clear, Musk and Andreessen Horowitz are on the vanguard, as the industry remains almost entirely Democratic — is not so much about actively supporting President Trump and opposing President Biden as it is about a shift from a position of political inertness to active self interest. Horowitz said at the beginning of that podcast:So one of the reasons we’re doing this podcast is there are people who know much more about foreign policy or the various groups rights issues or economic theory or all kinds of stuff than we do, but when it comes to startups and the policies around them, there’s maybe one or two other people at our level of expertise in the whole world just because, you know, we do it all day long. We work with startups. We see the impact of the policies. And then we’ve been in Washington doing a lot of work. And so that that kind of brings us to the reason for the podcast…And at the end:This is the last thing I wanted. In fact, you know, one, I didn’t want us to get into politics. We kind of got dragged into it. You know, my father has been in politics. I can say personally, I watched him lose all of his friends when he switched political sides. It was really an uncanny experience when I was a kid. And the last thing I wanted for the firm, for our employees, for the companies we invest in and so forth, was us to be involved in this because it gets very emotional and it’s tough.But like we literally, like the future of our business, the future of technology, new technology, and the future of America is literally at stake with some of these I just say like really misguided and difficult policies. So here we are. And for a little tech, we think Donald Trump is actually the right choice.What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedPodcast: Exponent Episode 013 – BuzzFeed and Native AdvertisingDateFriday, August 15, 2014Is BuzzFeed a Tech Company?DateTuesday, August 12, 2014How Tech Can BuildDateTuesday, April 21, 2020←JD Vance and Tech, Big Tech Versus Little Tech, JD Vance’s Remarks About Antitrust at the RemedyFest ConferenceCrashes and Competition→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Tech For Trump, Breaking the Deal, From Inertness to InterestWednesday, July 17, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss China’s upcoming Third Plenum and why it may offer the clearest indication yet of Xi Jinping’s ultimate vision for the Party and PRC.On to the Update:Tech For TrumpFromThe Information:Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, who run one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent venture capital firms, have told the firm’s employees in recent days they plan to make large donations to political action committees supporting the election of Donald Trump, people familiar with the matter said. The planned donations by Andreessen and Horowitz, who run the eponymous VC firm behind influential startups like OpenAI, SpaceX and Anduril, would add to the number of big-name tech investors and executives that have lined up to support the former president. Neither Andreessen or Horowitz have previously said publicly they would support Trump.That was rectified shortly thereafter, when Andreessen and Horowitzreleased a podcastexplicitly endorsing President Trump and explaining their rationale; a day earlierElon Musk announced significant financial supportof Trump’s campaign, afterexplicitly endorsing himon Saturday shortly after the former president narrowly escaped assassination.Musk’s increasingly conservative turn has been well documented, by Musk himself on his prolific X account. What is worth pointing out is that from an analytical viewpoint, which considers Musk’s personal and business interests, this is an entirely rational and understandable shift. The Biden administration famouslyexcluded Tesla from its electric vehicle initiatives, probably because Tesla isn’t unionized, but the real shift appeared to come after Musk acquired Twitter, when Musk-controlled entities were hit with a host of federal investigations ranging fromTesla allegedly buildling Musk a secret house,SpaceX not hiring asylees and refugees(despite SpaceX being governed by strict rules around citizenship given its national security importance),X not abiding by its FTC consent decree,Tesla requiring uniforms, andSpaceX launch impacts on wildlife. I’m not commenting on the validity of these accusations, just noting that, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Musk is endorsing President Biden’s opponent.You can make a similarly dispassionate analysis of Andreessen and Horowitz; after making the (valid!) case that America’s might is founded on technological leadership, which drives economic and military power, and further making the case that startups provide that technological leadership, Andreessen and Horowitz lay out specific areas where they disagree with the Biden administration:Crypto, which they argue is essential to escaping the control of Aggregators, and which they say is being nefariously targeted by the SEC and FDIC, while being explicitly supported by Trump in theRNC platform.AI, where they argue theBiden executive orderpoints to a future that locks in the incumbents as permanent monopolies, whichTrump promises to repeal.General frustration with the administration in areas ranging from fintech, biotech, and energy.President Biden’s proposal totax unrealized gains, which they argue completely destroys the venture capital ecosystem, predicated as it is on increasing valuations that may or may not ultimately materialize; notably Andreessen and Horowitz explicitly say they are not arguing about the so-called “carried interest loophole”, as that is a tax rate question and not a structural issue.The point here is not whether or not you agree with Andreessen and Horowitz (although I definitely do in terms of AI and taxing unrealized gains in particular); rather, as with Musk, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Andreessen and Horowitz are endorsing President Biden’s opponent.Of course, though, things aren’t necessarily equal, because President Biden’s opponent is President Trump.Breaking the DealThis is why the most interesting part of the Andreessen and Horowitz podcast actually came at the beginning, when Andreessen explained why he had long supported Democrats for President (I have edited the transcript lightly for readability; the precise transcript ishere):MA:I actually endorsed Hillary Clinton in 2016 publicly for what I thought were a variety of good reasons. And the way I would describe it is, I’m Gen X, I kind of came of age in the 90s as an entrepreneur. Almost everybody I knew, including myself, just took it for granted, which is like, of course, you’re a Democrat. Of course, you support the Democratic president. And the answer is the formula resolves to an easy answer, which is the Democrats in those days, you know, presidential level were pro-business, they were pro-tech, they were pro-startup. They were pro-America winning in tech markets. They were pro-entrepreneurship. And so you could start a company. They were pro-business. You could be in business. You could be successful in business. You could make a lot of money. And then you give the money away in philanthropy and you get enormous credit for that. And, you know, it absolves you of whatever.BH:Yeah, well, I was going to say, like, it’s obvious you’re to be a Democrat because you have to be to be a good person. That’s kind of the underlying thing.MA:But specifically successful business people could then basically become successful philanthropists. This is the path that Gates and many others kind of carved out. And then you could be progressive on social issues, and you could be on the right side of all these sort of societal changes that people were kind of focused on at the time. And the whole thing just seemed completely obvious and completely easy. So I was kind of on that path, frankly, quite strongly through at least 2016.In retrospect, it’s like there were glimmers of, I’d say, growing anti-tech, I would say animus, probably in the early 2010s. And there were growing kind of anti-business sentiments. And then by the way, something that really disturbed me a while back is sort of growing anti-philanthropy sentiments, which we probably won’t discuss it like today.BH:Oh, well, yeah. Well, with people who made a lot of money, who gave money away, got criticized for giving money away to charitable causes as opposed to paying more taxes. Kind of a funny life jealousy taken to the extreme, yeah.MA:A specific moment that happened to me to make me realize the landscape was shifting was when Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan set up the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative where they literally committed to 99 of their assets going to the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, there was a political faction that basically heavily criticized them, and the theory, number one is to your point, the theory was that they should they should pay it in taxes and the government should distribute the money, they shouldn’t have any control over where it goes, but the other was oh they’re only doing it for a tax break.BH:Yeah, which wasn’t true.MA:Well, it can be. It can’t be true because you’re giving away 99% of your assets to get a tax break. Like it literally doesn’t make sense.BH:It’s like people bad at math and jealous.MA:Exactly. And so like basically like that formula started to break down. And so, you know, I think like a lot of us in tech, it’s been a much more difficult puzzle to try to figure this all out over the over the last eight years and then particularly over the last four years.Kelsey Piper of Vox picked up on this segment as well; from X:I think “there was a deal and it has broken down” is an incredibly powerful and pervasive sentiment in tech, not just among Trump supporters but among committed and sincere liberals too.linkWhat was the deal? Hard to pin down exactly but something like – we will build ambitious things and pay high taxes and donate lots of money and mostly not play politics and you will treat us as valued pillars of our community, make our cities livable, stay mostly out of the way.linkThe abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech felt like a breakdown of the deal. The attacks on tech shuttle buses? Breakdown of the deal. The state of San Francisco? Breakdown of the deal.linkLike all narratives this one captures some things and misses others. And I don’t think that putting corrupt right wing nativists in power solves the justified anger here. But there is justified anger here. California politicians have egregiously failed their constituents.linkIn my mind that third tweet, about “the abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech”, is where the Trump factor comes in. Days after President Trump’s election in 2016, Zuckerberg pushed back on the idea thatfake newstipped the election. FromThe Verge:After a day of criticism over his company’s role in spreading fake news about political candidates, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg rejected the idea that the News Feed had tilted the election in favor of Donald Trump. “Personally I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way — I think is a pretty crazy idea. Voters make decisions based on their lived experience.”Zuckerberg was speaking at the Technonomy conference, where interviewer David Kirkpatrick pressed him on Facebook’s growing power as a distributor of news and information. He said people who reacted with shock to Trump’s victory had underestimated his support. “I do think there is a certain profound lack of empathy in asserting that the only reason someone could have voted the way they did is they saw some fake news,” Zuckerberg said. “If you believe that, then I don’t think you have internalized the message the Trump supporters are trying to send in this election.”This statement, for whatever reason, solved a burgeoning problem on the political left; inFacebook’s Political Problems, after quoting fromThe Voters Decide(which made the case that the Internet, by weakening the media, ultimately decreased power for political parties), I wrote:These dynamics were in many respects the same as the advertising dynamics I described above: on Facebook both small companies and large companies have an equal shot at customers, and both Party insiders and complete outsiders have an equal shot at voters. Moreover, it’s a dynamic that is even greater when combined: Trump famously used Facebook advertising to far greater effect than the Clinton campaign. And, at the same time, the New York Times, itself demoted to another attention seeker in a Facebook world, famously spent huge amounts of time on Clinton’s emails.What seems clear in retrospect is that the latter two entities made peace (and avoided introspection) by making Facebook the scapegoat for Trump’s election. This was true in a way — Facebook created the conditions for someone like Trump to win — but the furor that followed suggested something much more explicit: within days the conversation was about Fake News and Russian influence being the key factors, not campaign mistakes and questionable coverage decisions, and certainly not the fundamental way that the media environment had changed.This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story. I noted inan October 2020 Updatethat this was costing tech its natural allies in Washington:This hearing only emphasized this point, and, to be frank, the New York Post episode has only added credence to the Republican’s argument (moreover, the degree to which Democrats exhorted the three CEOs to act more forcefully — in their favor, of course — only augmented said argument). Tech as a whole does itself a disservice dismissing what these hearings represent with a hand-wave of “same old same old”; the industry is running out of allies in government, and it is their natural allies, the Republicans, that increasingly have the more compelling argument about tech’s power going too far.This is how you end up witha Republican vice-presidential candidate strongly supporting the current FTC’s aggressive attempts to prosecute big tech for antitrust violations; setting that aside, though — we’re talking about the “Little Tech” proponents here, not “Big Tech” — the fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege.From Inertness to InterestThe point here is not to render judgment about the various charges against tech and its impact on society;I have been outspokenabout the importance of external scrutiny of tech, even when it seems unfair. Rather, the reason to recount what has happened over the last eight years is to point out that the shift in tech we are seeing — and to be clear, Musk and Andreessen Horowitz are on the vanguard, as the industry remains almost entirely Democratic — is not so much about actively supporting President Trump and opposing President Biden as it is about a shift from a position of political inertness to active self interest. Horowitz said at the beginning of that podcast:So one of the reasons we’re doing this podcast is there are people who know much more about foreign policy or the various groups rights issues or economic theory or all kinds of stuff than we do, but when it comes to startups and the policies around them, there’s maybe one or two other people at our level of expertise in the whole world just because, you know, we do it all day long. We work with startups. We see the impact of the policies. And then we’ve been in Washington doing a lot of work. And so that that kind of brings us to the reason for the podcast…And at the end:This is the last thing I wanted. In fact, you know, one, I didn’t want us to get into politics. We kind of got dragged into it. You know, my father has been in politics. I can say personally, I watched him lose all of his friends when he switched political sides. It was really an uncanny experience when I was a kid. And the last thing I wanted for the firm, for our employees, for the companies we invest in and so forth, was us to be involved in this because it gets very emotional and it’s tough.But like we literally, like the future of our business, the future of technology, new technology, and the future of America is literally at stake with some of these I just say like really misguided and difficult policies. So here we are. And for a little tech, we think Donald Trump is actually the right choice.What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedPodcast: Exponent Episode 013 – BuzzFeed and Native AdvertisingDateFriday, August 15, 2014Is BuzzFeed a Tech Company?DateTuesday, August 12, 2014How Tech Can BuildDateTuesday, April 21, 2020←JD Vance and Tech, Big Tech Versus Little Tech, JD Vance’s Remarks About Antitrust at the RemedyFest ConferenceCrashes and Competition→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Tech For Trump, Breaking the Deal, From Inertness to InterestWednesday, July 17, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss China’s upcoming Third Plenum and why it may offer the clearest indication yet of Xi Jinping’s ultimate vision for the Party and PRC.On to the Update:Tech For TrumpFromThe Information:Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, who run one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent venture capital firms, have told the firm’s employees in recent days they plan to make large donations to political action committees supporting the election of Donald Trump, people familiar with the matter said. The planned donations by Andreessen and Horowitz, who run the eponymous VC firm behind influential startups like OpenAI, SpaceX and Anduril, would add to the number of big-name tech investors and executives that have lined up to support the former president. Neither Andreessen or Horowitz have previously said publicly they would support Trump.That was rectified shortly thereafter, when Andreessen and Horowitzreleased a podcastexplicitly endorsing President Trump and explaining their rationale; a day earlierElon Musk announced significant financial supportof Trump’s campaign, afterexplicitly endorsing himon Saturday shortly after the former president narrowly escaped assassination.Musk’s increasingly conservative turn has been well documented, by Musk himself on his prolific X account. What is worth pointing out is that from an analytical viewpoint, which considers Musk’s personal and business interests, this is an entirely rational and understandable shift. The Biden administration famouslyexcluded Tesla from its electric vehicle initiatives, probably because Tesla isn’t unionized, but the real shift appeared to come after Musk acquired Twitter, when Musk-controlled entities were hit with a host of federal investigations ranging fromTesla allegedly buildling Musk a secret house,SpaceX not hiring asylees and refugees(despite SpaceX being governed by strict rules around citizenship given its national security importance),X not abiding by its FTC consent decree,Tesla requiring uniforms, andSpaceX launch impacts on wildlife. I’m not commenting on the validity of these accusations, just noting that, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Musk is endorsing President Biden’s opponent.You can make a similarly dispassionate analysis of Andreessen and Horowitz; after making the (valid!) case that America’s might is founded on technological leadership, which drives economic and military power, and further making the case that startups provide that technological leadership, Andreessen and Horowitz lay out specific areas where they disagree with the Biden administration:Crypto, which they argue is essential to escaping the control of Aggregators, and which they say is being nefariously targeted by the SEC and FDIC, while being explicitly supported by Trump in theRNC platform.AI, where they argue theBiden executive orderpoints to a future that locks in the incumbents as permanent monopolies, whichTrump promises to repeal.General frustration with the administration in areas ranging from fintech, biotech, and energy.President Biden’s proposal totax unrealized gains, which they argue completely destroys the venture capital ecosystem, predicated as it is on increasing valuations that may or may not ultimately materialize; notably Andreessen and Horowitz explicitly say they are not arguing about the so-called “carried interest loophole”, as that is a tax rate question and not a structural issue.The point here is not whether or not you agree with Andreessen and Horowitz (although I definitely do in terms of AI and taxing unrealized gains in particular); rather, as with Musk, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Andreessen and Horowitz are endorsing President Biden’s opponent.Of course, though, things aren’t necessarily equal, because President Biden’s opponent is President Trump.Breaking the DealThis is why the most interesting part of the Andreessen and Horowitz podcast actually came at the beginning, when Andreessen explained why he had long supported Democrats for President (I have edited the transcript lightly for readability; the precise transcript ishere):MA:I actually endorsed Hillary Clinton in 2016 publicly for what I thought were a variety of good reasons. And the way I would describe it is, I’m Gen X, I kind of came of age in the 90s as an entrepreneur. Almost everybody I knew, including myself, just took it for granted, which is like, of course, you’re a Democrat. Of course, you support the Democratic president. And the answer is the formula resolves to an easy answer, which is the Democrats in those days, you know, presidential level were pro-business, they were pro-tech, they were pro-startup. They were pro-America winning in tech markets. They were pro-entrepreneurship. And so you could start a company. They were pro-business. You could be in business. You could be successful in business. You could make a lot of money. And then you give the money away in philanthropy and you get enormous credit for that. And, you know, it absolves you of whatever.BH:Yeah, well, I was going to say, like, it’s obvious you’re to be a Democrat because you have to be to be a good person. That’s kind of the underlying thing.MA:But specifically successful business people could then basically become successful philanthropists. This is the path that Gates and many others kind of carved out. And then you could be progressive on social issues, and you could be on the right side of all these sort of societal changes that people were kind of focused on at the time. And the whole thing just seemed completely obvious and completely easy. So I was kind of on that path, frankly, quite strongly through at least 2016.In retrospect, it’s like there were glimmers of, I’d say, growing anti-tech, I would say animus, probably in the early 2010s. And there were growing kind of anti-business sentiments. And then by the way, something that really disturbed me a while back is sort of growing anti-philanthropy sentiments, which we probably won’t discuss it like today.BH:Oh, well, yeah. Well, with people who made a lot of money, who gave money away, got criticized for giving money away to charitable causes as opposed to paying more taxes. Kind of a funny life jealousy taken to the extreme, yeah.MA:A specific moment that happened to me to make me realize the landscape was shifting was when Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan set up the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative where they literally committed to 99 of their assets going to the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, there was a political faction that basically heavily criticized them, and the theory, number one is to your point, the theory was that they should they should pay it in taxes and the government should distribute the money, they shouldn’t have any control over where it goes, but the other was oh they’re only doing it for a tax break.BH:Yeah, which wasn’t true.MA:Well, it can be. It can’t be true because you’re giving away 99% of your assets to get a tax break. Like it literally doesn’t make sense.BH:It’s like people bad at math and jealous.MA:Exactly. And so like basically like that formula started to break down. And so, you know, I think like a lot of us in tech, it’s been a much more difficult puzzle to try to figure this all out over the over the last eight years and then particularly over the last four years.Kelsey Piper of Vox picked up on this segment as well; from X:I think “there was a deal and it has broken down” is an incredibly powerful and pervasive sentiment in tech, not just among Trump supporters but among committed and sincere liberals too.linkWhat was the deal? Hard to pin down exactly but something like – we will build ambitious things and pay high taxes and donate lots of money and mostly not play politics and you will treat us as valued pillars of our community, make our cities livable, stay mostly out of the way.linkThe abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech felt like a breakdown of the deal. The attacks on tech shuttle buses? Breakdown of the deal. The state of San Francisco? Breakdown of the deal.linkLike all narratives this one captures some things and misses others. And I don’t think that putting corrupt right wing nativists in power solves the justified anger here. But there is justified anger here. California politicians have egregiously failed their constituents.linkIn my mind that third tweet, about “the abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech”, is where the Trump factor comes in. Days after President Trump’s election in 2016, Zuckerberg pushed back on the idea thatfake newstipped the election. FromThe Verge:After a day of criticism over his company’s role in spreading fake news about political candidates, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg rejected the idea that the News Feed had tilted the election in favor of Donald Trump. “Personally I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way — I think is a pretty crazy idea. Voters make decisions based on their lived experience.”Zuckerberg was speaking at the Technonomy conference, where interviewer David Kirkpatrick pressed him on Facebook’s growing power as a distributor of news and information. He said people who reacted with shock to Trump’s victory had underestimated his support. “I do think there is a certain profound lack of empathy in asserting that the only reason someone could have voted the way they did is they saw some fake news,” Zuckerberg said. “If you believe that, then I don’t think you have internalized the message the Trump supporters are trying to send in this election.”This statement, for whatever reason, solved a burgeoning problem on the political left; inFacebook’s Political Problems, after quoting fromThe Voters Decide(which made the case that the Internet, by weakening the media, ultimately decreased power for political parties), I wrote:These dynamics were in many respects the same as the advertising dynamics I described above: on Facebook both small companies and large companies have an equal shot at customers, and both Party insiders and complete outsiders have an equal shot at voters. Moreover, it’s a dynamic that is even greater when combined: Trump famously used Facebook advertising to far greater effect than the Clinton campaign. And, at the same time, the New York Times, itself demoted to another attention seeker in a Facebook world, famously spent huge amounts of time on Clinton’s emails.What seems clear in retrospect is that the latter two entities made peace (and avoided introspection) by making Facebook the scapegoat for Trump’s election. This was true in a way — Facebook created the conditions for someone like Trump to win — but the furor that followed suggested something much more explicit: within days the conversation was about Fake News and Russian influence being the key factors, not campaign mistakes and questionable coverage decisions, and certainly not the fundamental way that the media environment had changed.This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story. I noted inan October 2020 Updatethat this was costing tech its natural allies in Washington:This hearing only emphasized this point, and, to be frank, the New York Post episode has only added credence to the Republican’s argument (moreover, the degree to which Democrats exhorted the three CEOs to act more forcefully — in their favor, of course — only augmented said argument). Tech as a whole does itself a disservice dismissing what these hearings represent with a hand-wave of “same old same old”; the industry is running out of allies in government, and it is their natural allies, the Republicans, that increasingly have the more compelling argument about tech’s power going too far.This is how you end up witha Republican vice-presidential candidate strongly supporting the current FTC’s aggressive attempts to prosecute big tech for antitrust violations; setting that aside, though — we’re talking about the “Little Tech” proponents here, not “Big Tech” — the fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege.From Inertness to InterestThe point here is not to render judgment about the various charges against tech and its impact on society;I have been outspokenabout the importance of external scrutiny of tech, even when it seems unfair. Rather, the reason to recount what has happened over the last eight years is to point out that the shift in tech we are seeing — and to be clear, Musk and Andreessen Horowitz are on the vanguard, as the industry remains almost entirely Democratic — is not so much about actively supporting President Trump and opposing President Biden as it is about a shift from a position of political inertness to active self interest. Horowitz said at the beginning of that podcast:So one of the reasons we’re doing this podcast is there are people who know much more about foreign policy or the various groups rights issues or economic theory or all kinds of stuff than we do, but when it comes to startups and the policies around them, there’s maybe one or two other people at our level of expertise in the whole world just because, you know, we do it all day long. We work with startups. We see the impact of the policies. And then we’ve been in Washington doing a lot of work. And so that that kind of brings us to the reason for the podcast…And at the end:This is the last thing I wanted. In fact, you know, one, I didn’t want us to get into politics. We kind of got dragged into it. You know, my father has been in politics. I can say personally, I watched him lose all of his friends when he switched political sides. It was really an uncanny experience when I was a kid. And the last thing I wanted for the firm, for our employees, for the companies we invest in and so forth, was us to be involved in this because it gets very emotional and it’s tough.But like we literally, like the future of our business, the future of technology, new technology, and the future of America is literally at stake with some of these I just say like really misguided and difficult policies. So here we are. And for a little tech, we think Donald Trump is actually the right choice.What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedPodcast: Exponent Episode 013 – BuzzFeed and Native AdvertisingDateFriday, August 15, 2014Is BuzzFeed a Tech Company?DateTuesday, August 12, 2014How Tech Can BuildDateTuesday, April 21, 2020←JD Vance and Tech, Big Tech Versus Little Tech, JD Vance’s Remarks About Antitrust at the RemedyFest ConferenceCrashes and Competition→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss China’s upcoming Third Plenum and why it may offer the clearest indication yet of Xi Jinping’s ultimate vision for the Party and PRC.On to the Update:Tech For TrumpFromThe Information:Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, who run one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent venture capital firms, have told the firm’s employees in recent days they plan to make large donations to political action committees supporting the election of Donald Trump, people familiar with the matter said. The planned donations by Andreessen and Horowitz, who run the eponymous VC firm behind influential startups like OpenAI, SpaceX and Anduril, would add to the number of big-name tech investors and executives that have lined up to support the former president. Neither Andreessen or Horowitz have previously said publicly they would support Trump.That was rectified shortly thereafter, when Andreessen and Horowitzreleased a podcastexplicitly endorsing President Trump and explaining their rationale; a day earlierElon Musk announced significant financial supportof Trump’s campaign, afterexplicitly endorsing himon Saturday shortly after the former president narrowly escaped assassination.Musk’s increasingly conservative turn has been well documented, by Musk himself on his prolific X account. What is worth pointing out is that from an analytical viewpoint, which considers Musk’s personal and business interests, this is an entirely rational and understandable shift. The Biden administration famouslyexcluded Tesla from its electric vehicle initiatives, probably because Tesla isn’t unionized, but the real shift appeared to come after Musk acquired Twitter, when Musk-controlled entities were hit with a host of federal investigations ranging fromTesla allegedly buildling Musk a secret house,SpaceX not hiring asylees and refugees(despite SpaceX being governed by strict rules around citizenship given its national security importance),X not abiding by its FTC consent decree,Tesla requiring uniforms, andSpaceX launch impacts on wildlife. I’m not commenting on the validity of these accusations, just noting that, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Musk is endorsing President Biden’s opponent.You can make a similarly dispassionate analysis of Andreessen and Horowitz; after making the (valid!) case that America’s might is founded on technological leadership, which drives economic and military power, and further making the case that startups provide that technological leadership, Andreessen and Horowitz lay out specific areas where they disagree with the Biden administration:Crypto, which they argue is essential to escaping the control of Aggregators, and which they say is being nefariously targeted by the SEC and FDIC, while being explicitly supported by Trump in theRNC platform.AI, where they argue theBiden executive orderpoints to a future that locks in the incumbents as permanent monopolies, whichTrump promises to repeal.General frustration with the administration in areas ranging from fintech, biotech, and energy.President Biden’s proposal totax unrealized gains, which they argue completely destroys the venture capital ecosystem, predicated as it is on increasing valuations that may or may not ultimately materialize; notably Andreessen and Horowitz explicitly say they are not arguing about the so-called “carried interest loophole”, as that is a tax rate question and not a structural issue.The point here is not whether or not you agree with Andreessen and Horowitz (although I definitely do in terms of AI and taxing unrealized gains in particular); rather, as with Musk, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Andreessen and Horowitz are endorsing President Biden’s opponent.Of course, though, things aren’t necessarily equal, because President Biden’s opponent is President Trump.Breaking the DealThis is why the most interesting part of the Andreessen and Horowitz podcast actually came at the beginning, when Andreessen explained why he had long supported Democrats for President (I have edited the transcript lightly for readability; the precise transcript ishere):MA:I actually endorsed Hillary Clinton in 2016 publicly for what I thought were a variety of good reasons. And the way I would describe it is, I’m Gen X, I kind of came of age in the 90s as an entrepreneur. Almost everybody I knew, including myself, just took it for granted, which is like, of course, you’re a Democrat. Of course, you support the Democratic president. And the answer is the formula resolves to an easy answer, which is the Democrats in those days, you know, presidential level were pro-business, they were pro-tech, they were pro-startup. They were pro-America winning in tech markets. They were pro-entrepreneurship. And so you could start a company. They were pro-business. You could be in business. You could be successful in business. You could make a lot of money. And then you give the money away in philanthropy and you get enormous credit for that. And, you know, it absolves you of whatever.BH:Yeah, well, I was going to say, like, it’s obvious you’re to be a Democrat because you have to be to be a good person. That’s kind of the underlying thing.MA:But specifically successful business people could then basically become successful philanthropists. This is the path that Gates and many others kind of carved out. And then you could be progressive on social issues, and you could be on the right side of all these sort of societal changes that people were kind of focused on at the time. And the whole thing just seemed completely obvious and completely easy. So I was kind of on that path, frankly, quite strongly through at least 2016.In retrospect, it’s like there were glimmers of, I’d say, growing anti-tech, I would say animus, probably in the early 2010s. And there were growing kind of anti-business sentiments. And then by the way, something that really disturbed me a while back is sort of growing anti-philanthropy sentiments, which we probably won’t discuss it like today.BH:Oh, well, yeah. Well, with people who made a lot of money, who gave money away, got criticized for giving money away to charitable causes as opposed to paying more taxes. Kind of a funny life jealousy taken to the extreme, yeah.MA:A specific moment that happened to me to make me realize the landscape was shifting was when Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan set up the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative where they literally committed to 99 of their assets going to the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, there was a political faction that basically heavily criticized them, and the theory, number one is to your point, the theory was that they should they should pay it in taxes and the government should distribute the money, they shouldn’t have any control over where it goes, but the other was oh they’re only doing it for a tax break.BH:Yeah, which wasn’t true.MA:Well, it can be. It can’t be true because you’re giving away 99% of your assets to get a tax break. Like it literally doesn’t make sense.BH:It’s like people bad at math and jealous.MA:Exactly. And so like basically like that formula started to break down. And so, you know, I think like a lot of us in tech, it’s been a much more difficult puzzle to try to figure this all out over the over the last eight years and then particularly over the last four years.Kelsey Piper of Vox picked up on this segment as well; from X:I think “there was a deal and it has broken down” is an incredibly powerful and pervasive sentiment in tech, not just among Trump supporters but among committed and sincere liberals too.linkWhat was the deal? Hard to pin down exactly but something like – we will build ambitious things and pay high taxes and donate lots of money and mostly not play politics and you will treat us as valued pillars of our community, make our cities livable, stay mostly out of the way.linkThe abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech felt like a breakdown of the deal. The attacks on tech shuttle buses? Breakdown of the deal. The state of San Francisco? Breakdown of the deal.linkLike all narratives this one captures some things and misses others. And I don’t think that putting corrupt right wing nativists in power solves the justified anger here. But there is justified anger here. California politicians have egregiously failed their constituents.linkIn my mind that third tweet, about “the abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech”, is where the Trump factor comes in. Days after President Trump’s election in 2016, Zuckerberg pushed back on the idea thatfake newstipped the election. FromThe Verge:After a day of criticism over his company’s role in spreading fake news about political candidates, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg rejected the idea that the News Feed had tilted the election in favor of Donald Trump. “Personally I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way — I think is a pretty crazy idea. Voters make decisions based on their lived experience.”Zuckerberg was speaking at the Technonomy conference, where interviewer David Kirkpatrick pressed him on Facebook’s growing power as a distributor of news and information. He said people who reacted with shock to Trump’s victory had underestimated his support. “I do think there is a certain profound lack of empathy in asserting that the only reason someone could have voted the way they did is they saw some fake news,” Zuckerberg said. “If you believe that, then I don’t think you have internalized the message the Trump supporters are trying to send in this election.”This statement, for whatever reason, solved a burgeoning problem on the political left; inFacebook’s Political Problems, after quoting fromThe Voters Decide(which made the case that the Internet, by weakening the media, ultimately decreased power for political parties), I wrote:These dynamics were in many respects the same as the advertising dynamics I described above: on Facebook both small companies and large companies have an equal shot at customers, and both Party insiders and complete outsiders have an equal shot at voters. Moreover, it’s a dynamic that is even greater when combined: Trump famously used Facebook advertising to far greater effect than the Clinton campaign. And, at the same time, the New York Times, itself demoted to another attention seeker in a Facebook world, famously spent huge amounts of time on Clinton’s emails.What seems clear in retrospect is that the latter two entities made peace (and avoided introspection) by making Facebook the scapegoat for Trump’s election. This was true in a way — Facebook created the conditions for someone like Trump to win — but the furor that followed suggested something much more explicit: within days the conversation was about Fake News and Russian influence being the key factors, not campaign mistakes and questionable coverage decisions, and certainly not the fundamental way that the media environment had changed.This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story. I noted inan October 2020 Updatethat this was costing tech its natural allies in Washington:This hearing only emphasized this point, and, to be frank, the New York Post episode has only added credence to the Republican’s argument (moreover, the degree to which Democrats exhorted the three CEOs to act more forcefully — in their favor, of course — only augmented said argument). Tech as a whole does itself a disservice dismissing what these hearings represent with a hand-wave of “same old same old”; the industry is running out of allies in government, and it is their natural allies, the Republicans, that increasingly have the more compelling argument about tech’s power going too far.This is how you end up witha Republican vice-presidential candidate strongly supporting the current FTC’s aggressive attempts to prosecute big tech for antitrust violations; setting that aside, though — we’re talking about the “Little Tech” proponents here, not “Big Tech” — the fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege.From Inertness to InterestThe point here is not to render judgment about the various charges against tech and its impact on society;I have been outspokenabout the importance of external scrutiny of tech, even when it seems unfair. Rather, the reason to recount what has happened over the last eight years is to point out that the shift in tech we are seeing — and to be clear, Musk and Andreessen Horowitz are on the vanguard, as the industry remains almost entirely Democratic — is not so much about actively supporting President Trump and opposing President Biden as it is about a shift from a position of political inertness to active self interest. Horowitz said at the beginning of that podcast:So one of the reasons we’re doing this podcast is there are people who know much more about foreign policy or the various groups rights issues or economic theory or all kinds of stuff than we do, but when it comes to startups and the policies around them, there’s maybe one or two other people at our level of expertise in the whole world just because, you know, we do it all day long. We work with startups. We see the impact of the policies. And then we’ve been in Washington doing a lot of work. And so that that kind of brings us to the reason for the podcast…And at the end:This is the last thing I wanted. In fact, you know, one, I didn’t want us to get into politics. We kind of got dragged into it. You know, my father has been in politics. I can say personally, I watched him lose all of his friends when he switched political sides. It was really an uncanny experience when I was a kid. And the last thing I wanted for the firm, for our employees, for the companies we invest in and so forth, was us to be involved in this because it gets very emotional and it’s tough.But like we literally, like the future of our business, the future of technology, new technology, and the future of America is literally at stake with some of these I just say like really misguided and difficult policies. So here we are. And for a little tech, we think Donald Trump is actually the right choice.What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz, who run one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent venture capital firms, have told the firm’s employees in recent days they plan to make large donations to political action committees supporting the election of Donald Trump, people familiar with the matter said. The planned donations by Andreessen and Horowitz, who run the eponymous VC firm behind influential startups like OpenAI, SpaceX and Anduril, would add to the number of big-name tech investors and executives that have lined up to support the former president. Neither Andreessen or Horowitz have previously said publicly they would support Trump. That was rectified shortly thereafter, when Andreessen and Horowitzreleased a podcastexplicitly endorsing President Trump and explaining their rationale; a day earlierElon Musk announced significant financial supportof Trump’s campaign, afterexplicitly endorsing himon Saturday shortly after the former president narrowly escaped assassination. Musk’s increasingly conservative turn has been well documented, by Musk himself on his prolific X account. What is worth pointing out is that from an analytical viewpoint, which considers Musk’s personal and business interests, this is an entirely rational and understandable shift. The Biden administration famouslyexcluded Tesla from its electric vehicle initiatives, probably because Tesla isn’t unionized, but the real shift appeared to come after Musk acquired Twitter, when Musk-controlled entities were hit with a host of federal investigations ranging fromTesla allegedly buildling Musk a secret house,SpaceX not hiring asylees and refugees(despite SpaceX being governed by strict rules around citizenship given its national security importance),X not abiding by its FTC consent decree,Tesla requiring uniforms, andSpaceX launch impacts on wildlife. I’m not commenting on the validity of these accusations, just noting that, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Musk is endorsing President Biden’s opponent. You can make a similarly dispassionate analysis of Andreessen and Horowitz; after making the (valid!) case that America’s might is founded on technological leadership, which drives economic and military power, and further making the case that startups provide that technological leadership, Andreessen and Horowitz lay out specific areas where they disagree with the Biden administration: The point here is not whether or not you agree with Andreessen and Horowitz (although I definitely do in terms of AI and taxing unrealized gains in particular); rather, as with Musk, all things being equal, it’s not particularly surprising that Andreessen and Horowitz are endorsing President Biden’s opponent. This is why the most interesting part of the Andreessen and Horowitz podcast actually came at the beginning, when Andreessen explained why he had long supported Democrats for President (I have edited the transcript lightly for readability; the precise transcript ishere): MA:I actually endorsed Hillary Clinton in 2016 publicly for what I thought were a variety of good reasons. And the way I would describe it is, I’m Gen X, I kind of came of age in the 90s as an entrepreneur. Almost everybody I knew, including myself, just took it for granted, which is like, of course, you’re a Democrat. Of course, you support the Democratic president. And the answer is the formula resolves to an easy answer, which is the Democrats in those days, you know, presidential level were pro-business, they were pro-tech, they were pro-startup. They were pro-America winning in tech markets. They were pro-entrepreneurship. And so you could start a company. They were pro-business. You could be in business. You could be successful in business. You could make a lot of money. And then you give the money away in philanthropy and you get enormous credit for that. And, you know, it absolves you of whatever. MA:But specifically successful business people could then basically become successful philanthropists. This is the path that Gates and many others kind of carved out. And then you could be progressive on social issues, and you could be on the right side of all these sort of societal changes that people were kind of focused on at the time. And the whole thing just seemed completely obvious and completely easy. So I was kind of on that path, frankly, quite strongly through at least 2016. In retrospect, it’s like there were glimmers of, I’d say, growing anti-tech, I would say animus, probably in the early 2010s. And there were growing kind of anti-business sentiments. And then by the way, something that really disturbed me a while back is sort of growing anti-philanthropy sentiments, which we probably won’t discuss it like today. BH:Oh, well, yeah. Well, with people who made a lot of money, who gave money away, got criticized for giving money away to charitable causes as opposed to paying more taxes. Kind of a funny life jealousy taken to the extreme, yeah. MA:A specific moment that happened to me to make me realize the landscape was shifting was when Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan set up the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative where they literally committed to 99 of their assets going to the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, there was a political faction that basically heavily criticized them, and the theory, number one is to your point, the theory was that they should they should pay it in taxes and the government should distribute the money, they shouldn’t have any control over where it goes, but the other was oh they’re only doing it for a tax break. MA:Exactly. And so like basically like that formula started to break down. And so, you know, I think like a lot of us in tech, it’s been a much more difficult puzzle to try to figure this all out over the over the last eight years and then particularly over the last four years. What was the deal? Hard to pin down exactly but something like – we will build ambitious things and pay high taxes and donate lots of money and mostly not play politics and you will treat us as valued pillars of our community, make our cities livable, stay mostly out of the way.link The abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech felt like a breakdown of the deal. The attacks on tech shuttle buses? Breakdown of the deal. The state of San Francisco? Breakdown of the deal.link Like all narratives this one captures some things and misses others. And I don’t think that putting corrupt right wing nativists in power solves the justified anger here. But there is justified anger here. California politicians have egregiously failed their constituents.link In my mind that third tweet, about “the abrupt tilt towards intensely negative coverage of tech”, is where the Trump factor comes in. Days after President Trump’s election in 2016, Zuckerberg pushed back on the idea thatfake newstipped the election. FromThe Verge: After a day of criticism over his company’s role in spreading fake news about political candidates, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg rejected the idea that the News Feed had tilted the election in favor of Donald Trump. “Personally I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way — I think is a pretty crazy idea. Voters make decisions based on their lived experience.” Zuckerberg was speaking at the Technonomy conference, where interviewer David Kirkpatrick pressed him on Facebook’s growing power as a distributor of news and information. He said people who reacted with shock to Trump’s victory had underestimated his support. “I do think there is a certain profound lack of empathy in asserting that the only reason someone could have voted the way they did is they saw some fake news,” Zuckerberg said. “If you believe that, then I don’t think you have internalized the message the Trump supporters are trying to send in this election.” This statement, for whatever reason, solved a burgeoning problem on the political left; inFacebook’s Political Problems, after quoting fromThe Voters Decide(which made the case that the Internet, by weakening the media, ultimately decreased power for political parties), I wrote: These dynamics were in many respects the same as the advertising dynamics I described above: on Facebook both small companies and large companies have an equal shot at customers, and both Party insiders and complete outsiders have an equal shot at voters. Moreover, it’s a dynamic that is even greater when combined: Trump famously used Facebook advertising to far greater effect than the Clinton campaign. And, at the same time, the New York Times, itself demoted to another attention seeker in a Facebook world, famously spent huge amounts of time on Clinton’s emails. What seems clear in retrospect is that the latter two entities made peace (and avoided introspection) by making Facebook the scapegoat for Trump’s election. This was true in a way — Facebook created the conditions for someone like Trump to win — but the furor that followed suggested something much more explicit: within days the conversation was about Fake News and Russian influence being the key factors, not campaign mistakes and questionable coverage decisions, and certainly not the fundamental way that the media environment had changed. This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story. I noted inan October 2020 Updatethat this was costing tech its natural allies in Washington: This hearing only emphasized this point, and, to be frank, the New York Post episode has only added credence to the Republican’s argument (moreover, the degree to which Democrats exhorted the three CEOs to act more forcefully — in their favor, of course — only augmented said argument). Tech as a whole does itself a disservice dismissing what these hearings represent with a hand-wave of “same old same old”; the industry is running out of allies in government, and it is their natural allies, the Republicans, that increasingly have the more compelling argument about tech’s power going too far. This is how you end up witha Republican vice-presidential candidate strongly supporting the current FTC’s aggressive attempts to prosecute big tech for antitrust violations; setting that aside, though — we’re talking about the “Little Tech” proponents here, not “Big Tech” — the fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege. The point here is not to render judgment about the various charges against tech and its impact on society;I have been outspokenabout the importance of external scrutiny of tech, even when it seems unfair. Rather, the reason to recount what has happened over the last eight years is to point out that the shift in tech we are seeing — and to be clear, Musk and Andreessen Horowitz are on the vanguard, as the industry remains almost entirely Democratic — is not so much about actively supporting President Trump and opposing President Biden as it is about a shift from a position of political inertness to active self interest. Horowitz said at the beginning of that podcast: So one of the reasons we’re doing this podcast is there are people who know much more about foreign policy or the various groups rights issues or economic theory or all kinds of stuff than we do, but when it comes to startups and the policies around them, there’s maybe one or two other people at our level of expertise in the whole world just because, you know, we do it all day long. We work with startups. We see the impact of the policies. And then we’ve been in Washington doing a lot of work. And so that that kind of brings us to the reason for the podcast… This is the last thing I wanted. In fact, you know, one, I didn’t want us to get into politics. We kind of got dragged into it. You know, my father has been in politics. I can say personally, I watched him lose all of his friends when he switched political sides. It was really an uncanny experience when I was a kid. And the last thing I wanted for the firm, for our employees, for the companies we invest in and so forth, was us to be involved in this because it gets very emotional and it’s tough. But like we literally, like the future of our business, the future of technology, new technology, and the future of America is literally at stake with some of these I just say like really misguided and difficult policies. So here we are. And for a little tech, we think Donald Trump is actually the right choice. What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025