# [PODCAST] Microsoft Earnings; Microsoft and OpenAI, Again; GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and Claude

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/microsoft-earnings-microsoft-and-openai-again-github-copilot-adds-gemini-and-claude/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.SRqZc5CXuK4ZpsNcrIKECQ2BJL9J7XvT55wIXO-mLJWDaaMcNk8sLIyDg8Ril5ic6csiSVW5G_jHV4RtQRb16EB4WesfmC0VED-QHLbi2NGrma2L-HrHnNMgWSWsmSRUG4ol70oVYGKh_2LytTAXZNWRJ9y4nosg5Jz1yGbIKqh7PoA9qh9M_s0DqiVTZLMFkV3PNIuBsGD6HuwOetVAcd5hY65ogT164B5ce3rIkjOSzdqu6_JWYI94aegpQLzFvv0wBtyGJ3x8pln78ReGSSr8Zjw2PIyIKDx66nD5F0F-ooGQ2ZxnlTfRx13JHDIe1r-59VKHo2LtXDALWQZ71Q
**Atlas ID**: 229670
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.933461

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMicrosoft Earnings; Microsoft and OpenAI, Again; GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeTuesday, November 5, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techwas a fun one, and purposely so, given the serious business going on elsewhere. Andrew came up with NBA analogies for every major tech company, while I gave a history lesson on bandwidth and the growth of video on the Internet.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its cloud-computing business last quarter, but a disappointing revenue outlook sparked investor concern about the near-term payoff for the software company’s massive investment in artificial intelligence. Revenue for the tech giant’s Azure cloud business — a core of its AI offering — rose 33% in the quarter through September, beating analysts’ expectations. For the current quarter, the company expects slightly less expansion, projecting Azure growth of between 31% and 32%.Excitement about the potential for generative AI that can create computer code and summarize complex information has helped fuel a run-up in the shares of Microsoft and other tech companies since 2023. Microsoft shares fell after the company unveiled a revenue projection and were down 3.4% in premarket trading Thursday. The Redmond, Wash., company’s overall revenue rose 16% to $65.6 billion as its net income climbed 11% to $24.7 billion. Analysts were expecting revenue of $64.57 billion and net income of $23.15 billion. The company expects revenue for the current quarter, which runs through December, to be between $68.1 billion and $69.1 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting revenue of $69.89 billion for the quarter.Microsoft’s results seemed fine; management said that AI demand in particular was higher than capacity, and as for the forecasted decrease in growth, CFO Amy Hood said onthe earnings call:And you think about 1 point or 2 of decel that we’ve guided to, and the majority of that is due to, unfortunately, some supply pushouts that I mentioned and then Satya reiterated in terms of AI supply coming online that we counted on. The underlying consumption growth is stable Q1 to Q2. And so to your question on some ins and outs, it is certainly some ins and outs. I do, as you heard, have confidence, as we get a good influx of supply across the second half of the year particularly on the AI side, that we’ll be better able to do some supply demand matching and hence, why we’re talking about acceleration in the back half.Remember, Nvidia’s newest Blackwell chips were supposed to come online this quarter, but were delayed; I assume that is the pushout that Hood is referring to. What was interesting was this answer from CEO Satya Nadella about the company’s capex spending priorities:Satya, when you talked about the investment cycle, these models are getting bigger, more expensive, but you also pointed out to how in the inference phase, we’re likely to get paid. How does that cycle look like in inference for Microsoft? Where are the products and the applications that will show up on the Microsoft P&L as a result of the inference phase of AI kicking in?Thanks, Kash. I mean the good news for us is that we’re not waiting for that inference to show up, right? If you sort of think about the point we even made that this is going to be the fastest growth to $10 billion of any business in our history, it’s all inference, right? One of the things that may not be as evident is that we’re not actually selling raw GPUs for other people to train. In fact, that’s sort of a business we turn away because we have so much demand on inference that we are not taking what I would — in fact, there’s a huge adverse selection problem today where people — it’s just a bunch of tech companies still using VC money to buy a bunch of GPUs. We kind of really are not even participating in most of that because we are literally going to the real demand, which is in the enterprise space or our own products like GitHub Copilot or M365 Copilot.So I feel the quality of our revenue is also pretty superior in that context. And that’s what gives us even the conviction, to even Amy’s answers previously, about our capital spend, is if this was just all about sort of a bunch of people training large models and that was all we got, then that would be ultimately still waiting, to your point, for someone to actually have demand, which is real. And in our case, the good news here is we have a diversified portfolio. We’re seeing real demand across all of that portfolio.But wait, what about OpenAI? Don’t they do a lot of training?Microsoft and OpenAI, AgainFirst off, OpenAIfinallyshowed up inMicrosoft’s financial filings, in a note under “Accounting Policies”:We have an investment in OpenAI Global, LLC (“OpenAI”) and have made total funding commitments of $13 billion. The investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.There are three categories of investments:If you own >50% of a company, you are considered the controlling entity, and the underlying company’s financials are consolidated into the parent company’s.If you own between 20% and 50% of a company, you are considered to exert significant influence but not control; in this case the underlying company’s profits and losses are recorded on the parent company’s financial statements as an investment gain or loss.If you own <20% of a company, you are considered to lack significant influence on operations; in this case only dividends from the underlying company are recorded, but not profits or losses.Microsoft, meanwhile, first invested $1 billion in OpenAI’s for-profit entity in 2019, a further $2 billion at some point in the next few years, and a further $10 billion in 2023. The latter deal secured 75% of OpenAI’s profits until its investment was paid back, and then 49% of profits up to a theoretical cap on profits. That, though, was over a year ago, so why hasn’t any of this shown up on Microsoft’s financial statements until now?The first potential reason might be a creative interpretation by Microsoft of its accounting responsibilities given that (1) it only owned a profit share of OpenAI’s for-profit entity which (2) was ultimately owned by a non-profit over which Microsoft exerted no control. That status hasn’t changed yet, but OpenAI is reportedly in the process of figuring out how to transition to a truly for-profit entity, which may have been part of the conditions for its recent $6.6 billion raise at a $157 billion valuation.The second potential reason has to do with the fact that most if not all of Microsoft’s funding came in the form of Azure compute credits.I’ve complained previouslyabout the lack of accounting for these credits, which mostly showed up on Microsoft’s income statement as Azure revenue, but from an OpenAI perspective it also meant the company was probably not operating at a loss, given their compute was “free”. That, by extension, would mean that there wasn’t anything for Microsoft to put on their income statement, so they could dodge the question.That’s clearly no longer the case. This quarter “Other Income” included a line called “Other, net”, that was a loss of $683 million, which included OpenAI; Hood said of the coming quarter:Other income and expense is expected to be roughly negative $1.5 billion, primarily driven by our share of the expected loss from OpenAI, which is accounted for under the equity method. As a reminder, we do not recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on equity method investments.That last sentence is why this isn’t necessarily a big deal; Microsoft isn’t recording the gain in OpenAI’s valuation, and on the flip side, the accounting losses that they will record are capped at the $13 billion they have invested. At the same time, the fact there are cash losses at all, which are accelerating next quarter, are notable; my guess is that OpenAI has used up all of its credits, and is now straight up paying for its compute. Or, alternatively, perhaps they are spending money elsewhere; notethis press release from June:Oracle, Microsoft, and OpenAl are partnering to extend the Microsoft Azure Al platform to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to provide additional capacity for OpenAl. OpenAI is the AI research and development company behind ChatGPT, which provides generative AI services to more than 100 million users every month.“We are delighted to be working with Microsoft and Oracle. OCI will extend Azure’s platform and enable OpenAI to continue to scale,” said Sam Altman, Chief Executive Officer, OpenAI.“The race to build the world’s greatest large language model is on, and it is fueling unlimited demand for Oracle’s Gen2 AI infrastructure,” said Larry Ellison, Oracle Chairman and CTO. “Leaders like OpenAI are choosing OCI because it is the world’s fastest and most cost-effective AI infrastructure.”OCI’s leading AI infrastructure is advancing AI innovation. OpenAI will join thousands of AI innovators across industries worldwide that run their AI workloads on OCI AI infrastructure. Adept, Modal, MosaicML, NVIDIA, Reka, Suno, Together AI, Twelve Labs, xAI, and others use OCI Supercluster to train and inference next-generation AI models.Notice that only two of the three companies have quotes; Microsoft is notable by their absence. Perhaps this is why OpenAI put outthis tweetthe next day:TheNew York Times gave more context last month:After Microsoft backed away from the discussions about additional funding, OpenAI was in a bind. It needed more cash to keep its operations going, and its executives chafed at the exclusivity of the contract. Over the past year, the A.I. company repeatedly tried to negotiate a lower cost and terms that would allow it to buy computing power from other companies, according to seven people familiar with the discussions.In June, Microsoft agreed to an exception in the contract, six people with knowledge of the change said. That allowed OpenAI to sign a roughly $10 billion computing deal with Oracle for additional computing resources, according to two people familiar with the deal. Oracle is providing computers packed with chips suited to building A.I., while Microsoft provides the software that drives the hardware.And in recent weeks, OpenAI and Microsoft negotiated a change to a future contact that reduces how much Microsoft will charge the smaller company for computing power, although the exact terms were unclear, according to a person familiar with the change.I can’t believe I have to be this pedantic, but notice that that OpenAI tweet is in the present tense: “All pre-training of our frontier modelscontinuesto happen on supercomputers built in partnership with Microsoft”. That (1) doesn’t say anything about the future and (2) we have Nadella, on this earnings call, strongly suggesting that Microsoft is primarily spending money on inference. It sure sounds like Microsoft isn’t very invested (literally!) in OpenAI’s future models.To be fair, there was another Nadella question-and-answer that did talk about training:What are the internal constraints or guardrails that Microsoft has when it comes to investing behind these innovations, particularly in relation to the funding of future generations of foundational models, where people are talking about price tags using the tens of billions or even $100 billion plus…?Thank you, Keith, for those questions. I think on the first point, ultimately, when you think about, let’s say, capital outlay for training because that’s essentially what you’re asking, it is going to be rate limited by your monetization of inference in a given generation, right? So just like in the past, we would allocate capital to build out cloud based on the demand signal we were seeing and then we would then project the demand, and that’s what we would build it for. So you can think of training essentially as that, right, which is you’re building the next-generation model so that then you have a more capable model that then drives more inference demand, right? So ultimately, even with all the scaling laws and what have you, I think you ultimately will normalize to having a pace.In fact, I think the best way to think about even is given that Moore’s Law effectively is working on the sort of silicon and system side, so it’s just not compute, right? It’s efficiencies in compute. It’s data as well as algorithms. You will want to sort of keep on that curve, which is you really want to refresh your fleet with the Moore’s Law every year and then effectively depreciate it over the period of the life cycle of it. And then the inference demand ultimately will govern how much we invest in training because that’s, I think, at the end of the day, you’re all subject to ultimately demand.OK, so Microsoft will spend money on training, but at a pace dictated by inference usage. Leaving aside the fact that inference usage comes after training, this is a viewpoint that is fundamentally at odds with OpenAI’s still-stated goal of pursuing AGI, which is in some respects, just doing training for training’s sake, to see what you can develop. I guess you could square these circles if you tried, but it sure seems like Microsoft and OpenAI are really, dare I say, misaligned.Meanwhile, Nadella was asked about the OpenAI relationship directly:Since the print 3 months ago, we, investors have been hit with a torrent of media stories about OpenAI and Microsoft. And I’d love to give Microsoft an opportunity to frame the relationship. It seems to me it’s critically important. But we have been, I think, everyone on the line, picking up signals that perhaps Microsoft wants to diversify somewhat at the model layer and offer customers choice…So I’d say, first, the partnership for both sides, that’s OpenAI and Microsoft, has been super beneficial. After all, we were the — we effectively sponsored what is one of the most highest-valued private companies today when we invested in them and really took a bet on them and their innovation 4, 5 years ago. And that has led to great success for Microsoft. That’s led to great success for OpenAI. And we continue to build on it, right? So we serve them with world-class infrastructure on which they do their innovation in terms of models, on top of which we innovate on both the model layer with some of the post-training stuff we do as well as some of the small models we build and then, of course, all of the product innovation, right? One of the things that my own sort of conviction of OpenAI and what they were doing came about when I started seeing something like GitHub Copilot as a product get built or DAX Copilot get built or M365 Copilot get built. So we have a fantastic portfolio of innovation that we build on top of that.And the same also, I would say, we are investors. We feel very, very good about sort of our investment stake in OpenAI. And so our focus — and we’re always in constant dialogue with them in a partnership like this where both sides have achieved mutual success at the pace at which we’ve achieved it. That means we need to kind of push each other to do more, to capture the moment, and that’s what we plan to do, and we intend to keep building on it.If you are not seeing much in this answer, well, that’s the point: Nadella gave a nice summary of the relationship, pointed out that it is set up to be a profitable investment, and gave basically zero assurances to investors that the stories about a fraying relationship weren’t true.GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeAlso note, by the way, that Nadella mentioned that he got conviction about OpenAI when he saw GitHub Copilot. To that end, fromBloomberglast week:Microsoft Corp.’s GitHub has agreed to bake artificial intelligence models from Anthropic and Alphabet Inc.’s Google into a coding assistant used by millions of software developers. At first, customers will be able to use Google’s Gemini and Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet to chat and ask questions, GitHub said Tuesday at its Universe conference in San Francisco. Eventually, the models will be incorporated into the main part of the GitHub Copilot assistant, which can spit out code with a few simple prompts.After teaming up with OpenAI a few years ago, GitHub pioneered the use of generative artificial intelligence to automate tedious parts of the coding process. The company will continue to make the OpenAI models the default setting, but developers will be able to switch to the Google and Anthropic models if they wish, GitHub Chief Executive Officer Thomas Dohmke said in an interview.It’s hard to believe that it was only one year ago that Nadella’s focus onMicrosoft’s October 2023 earnings callwas about the competitive advantage they had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models:It is true that the approach we have taken is a full stack approach all the way from whether it’s ChatGPT or Bing Chat or all our Copilots, all share the same model. So in some sense, one of the things that we do have is very, very high leverage of the one model that we used, which we trained, and then the one model that we are doing inferencing at scale. And that advantage sort of trickles down all the way to both utilization internally, utilization of third parties, and also over time, you can see the sort of stack optimization all the way to the silicon, because the abstraction layer to which the developers are riding is much higher up than low-level kernels, if you will.So, therefore, I think there is a fundamental approach we took, which was a technical approach of saying we’ll have Copilots and Copilot stack all available. That doesn’t mean we don’t have people doing training for open source models or proprietary models. We also have a bunch of open source models. We have a bunch of fine-tuning happening, a bunch of RLHF happening. So there’s all kinds of ways people use it. But the thing is, we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that’s being used for inference across all our first-party SaaS apps, as well as our API in our Azure AI service…The lesson learned from the cloud side is — we’re not running a conglomerate of different businesses, it’s all one tech stack up and down Microsoft’s portfolio, and that, I think, is going to be very important because that discipline, given what the spend like — it will look like for this AI transition any business that’s not disciplined about their capital spend accruing across all their businesses could run into trouble.Fast forward one year and Nadella’s proof-of-concept app, GitHub Copilot, is aggressively de-integrating from OpenAI; this follows onNadella describing models as commodities,investing in Mistral, andnot-acquiring-but-incorporating Inflection AI. Microsoft is aggressively investing in being the app layer for AI, but the AI doesn’t necessarily have to be OpenAI.In short, the Microsoft-OpenAI integration dream is clearly dead. One gets the impression from this call — and from the accounting treatment — that the relationship itself is on life support.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedOpenAI’s Misalignment and Microsoft’s GainDateMonday, November 20, 20232025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025←Meta Earnings, Measuring Meta’s Spending, Meta RecommendationsPresident Trump, Take Two; Big Tech, Little Tech, Chips, and Hardware; Elon Musk’s Triumph→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Microsoft Earnings; Microsoft and OpenAI, Again; GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeTuesday, November 5, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techwas a fun one, and purposely so, given the serious business going on elsewhere. Andrew came up with NBA analogies for every major tech company, while I gave a history lesson on bandwidth and the growth of video on the Internet.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its cloud-computing business last quarter, but a disappointing revenue outlook sparked investor concern about the near-term payoff for the software company’s massive investment in artificial intelligence. Revenue for the tech giant’s Azure cloud business — a core of its AI offering — rose 33% in the quarter through September, beating analysts’ expectations. For the current quarter, the company expects slightly less expansion, projecting Azure growth of between 31% and 32%.Excitement about the potential for generative AI that can create computer code and summarize complex information has helped fuel a run-up in the shares of Microsoft and other tech companies since 2023. Microsoft shares fell after the company unveiled a revenue projection and were down 3.4% in premarket trading Thursday. The Redmond, Wash., company’s overall revenue rose 16% to $65.6 billion as its net income climbed 11% to $24.7 billion. Analysts were expecting revenue of $64.57 billion and net income of $23.15 billion. The company expects revenue for the current quarter, which runs through December, to be between $68.1 billion and $69.1 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting revenue of $69.89 billion for the quarter.Microsoft’s results seemed fine; management said that AI demand in particular was higher than capacity, and as for the forecasted decrease in growth, CFO Amy Hood said onthe earnings call:And you think about 1 point or 2 of decel that we’ve guided to, and the majority of that is due to, unfortunately, some supply pushouts that I mentioned and then Satya reiterated in terms of AI supply coming online that we counted on. The underlying consumption growth is stable Q1 to Q2. And so to your question on some ins and outs, it is certainly some ins and outs. I do, as you heard, have confidence, as we get a good influx of supply across the second half of the year particularly on the AI side, that we’ll be better able to do some supply demand matching and hence, why we’re talking about acceleration in the back half.Remember, Nvidia’s newest Blackwell chips were supposed to come online this quarter, but were delayed; I assume that is the pushout that Hood is referring to. What was interesting was this answer from CEO Satya Nadella about the company’s capex spending priorities:Satya, when you talked about the investment cycle, these models are getting bigger, more expensive, but you also pointed out to how in the inference phase, we’re likely to get paid. How does that cycle look like in inference for Microsoft? Where are the products and the applications that will show up on the Microsoft P&L as a result of the inference phase of AI kicking in?Thanks, Kash. I mean the good news for us is that we’re not waiting for that inference to show up, right? If you sort of think about the point we even made that this is going to be the fastest growth to $10 billion of any business in our history, it’s all inference, right? One of the things that may not be as evident is that we’re not actually selling raw GPUs for other people to train. In fact, that’s sort of a business we turn away because we have so much demand on inference that we are not taking what I would — in fact, there’s a huge adverse selection problem today where people — it’s just a bunch of tech companies still using VC money to buy a bunch of GPUs. We kind of really are not even participating in most of that because we are literally going to the real demand, which is in the enterprise space or our own products like GitHub Copilot or M365 Copilot.So I feel the quality of our revenue is also pretty superior in that context. And that’s what gives us even the conviction, to even Amy’s answers previously, about our capital spend, is if this was just all about sort of a bunch of people training large models and that was all we got, then that would be ultimately still waiting, to your point, for someone to actually have demand, which is real. And in our case, the good news here is we have a diversified portfolio. We’re seeing real demand across all of that portfolio.But wait, what about OpenAI? Don’t they do a lot of training?Microsoft and OpenAI, AgainFirst off, OpenAIfinallyshowed up inMicrosoft’s financial filings, in a note under “Accounting Policies”:We have an investment in OpenAI Global, LLC (“OpenAI”) and have made total funding commitments of $13 billion. The investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.There are three categories of investments:If you own >50% of a company, you are considered the controlling entity, and the underlying company’s financials are consolidated into the parent company’s.If you own between 20% and 50% of a company, you are considered to exert significant influence but not control; in this case the underlying company’s profits and losses are recorded on the parent company’s financial statements as an investment gain or loss.If you own <20% of a company, you are considered to lack significant influence on operations; in this case only dividends from the underlying company are recorded, but not profits or losses.Microsoft, meanwhile, first invested $1 billion in OpenAI’s for-profit entity in 2019, a further $2 billion at some point in the next few years, and a further $10 billion in 2023. The latter deal secured 75% of OpenAI’s profits until its investment was paid back, and then 49% of profits up to a theoretical cap on profits. That, though, was over a year ago, so why hasn’t any of this shown up on Microsoft’s financial statements until now?The first potential reason might be a creative interpretation by Microsoft of its accounting responsibilities given that (1) it only owned a profit share of OpenAI’s for-profit entity which (2) was ultimately owned by a non-profit over which Microsoft exerted no control. That status hasn’t changed yet, but OpenAI is reportedly in the process of figuring out how to transition to a truly for-profit entity, which may have been part of the conditions for its recent $6.6 billion raise at a $157 billion valuation.The second potential reason has to do with the fact that most if not all of Microsoft’s funding came in the form of Azure compute credits.I’ve complained previouslyabout the lack of accounting for these credits, which mostly showed up on Microsoft’s income statement as Azure revenue, but from an OpenAI perspective it also meant the company was probably not operating at a loss, given their compute was “free”. That, by extension, would mean that there wasn’t anything for Microsoft to put on their income statement, so they could dodge the question.That’s clearly no longer the case. This quarter “Other Income” included a line called “Other, net”, that was a loss of $683 million, which included OpenAI; Hood said of the coming quarter:Other income and expense is expected to be roughly negative $1.5 billion, primarily driven by our share of the expected loss from OpenAI, which is accounted for under the equity method. As a reminder, we do not recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on equity method investments.That last sentence is why this isn’t necessarily a big deal; Microsoft isn’t recording the gain in OpenAI’s valuation, and on the flip side, the accounting losses that they will record are capped at the $13 billion they have invested. At the same time, the fact there are cash losses at all, which are accelerating next quarter, are notable; my guess is that OpenAI has used up all of its credits, and is now straight up paying for its compute. Or, alternatively, perhaps they are spending money elsewhere; notethis press release from June:Oracle, Microsoft, and OpenAl are partnering to extend the Microsoft Azure Al platform to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to provide additional capacity for OpenAl. OpenAI is the AI research and development company behind ChatGPT, which provides generative AI services to more than 100 million users every month.“We are delighted to be working with Microsoft and Oracle. OCI will extend Azure’s platform and enable OpenAI to continue to scale,” said Sam Altman, Chief Executive Officer, OpenAI.“The race to build the world’s greatest large language model is on, and it is fueling unlimited demand for Oracle’s Gen2 AI infrastructure,” said Larry Ellison, Oracle Chairman and CTO. “Leaders like OpenAI are choosing OCI because it is the world’s fastest and most cost-effective AI infrastructure.”OCI’s leading AI infrastructure is advancing AI innovation. OpenAI will join thousands of AI innovators across industries worldwide that run their AI workloads on OCI AI infrastructure. Adept, Modal, MosaicML, NVIDIA, Reka, Suno, Together AI, Twelve Labs, xAI, and others use OCI Supercluster to train and inference next-generation AI models.Notice that only two of the three companies have quotes; Microsoft is notable by their absence. Perhaps this is why OpenAI put outthis tweetthe next day:TheNew York Times gave more context last month:After Microsoft backed away from the discussions about additional funding, OpenAI was in a bind. It needed more cash to keep its operations going, and its executives chafed at the exclusivity of the contract. Over the past year, the A.I. company repeatedly tried to negotiate a lower cost and terms that would allow it to buy computing power from other companies, according to seven people familiar with the discussions.In June, Microsoft agreed to an exception in the contract, six people with knowledge of the change said. That allowed OpenAI to sign a roughly $10 billion computing deal with Oracle for additional computing resources, according to two people familiar with the deal. Oracle is providing computers packed with chips suited to building A.I., while Microsoft provides the software that drives the hardware.And in recent weeks, OpenAI and Microsoft negotiated a change to a future contact that reduces how much Microsoft will charge the smaller company for computing power, although the exact terms were unclear, according to a person familiar with the change.I can’t believe I have to be this pedantic, but notice that that OpenAI tweet is in the present tense: “All pre-training of our frontier modelscontinuesto happen on supercomputers built in partnership with Microsoft”. That (1) doesn’t say anything about the future and (2) we have Nadella, on this earnings call, strongly suggesting that Microsoft is primarily spending money on inference. It sure sounds like Microsoft isn’t very invested (literally!) in OpenAI’s future models.To be fair, there was another Nadella question-and-answer that did talk about training:What are the internal constraints or guardrails that Microsoft has when it comes to investing behind these innovations, particularly in relation to the funding of future generations of foundational models, where people are talking about price tags using the tens of billions or even $100 billion plus…?Thank you, Keith, for those questions. I think on the first point, ultimately, when you think about, let’s say, capital outlay for training because that’s essentially what you’re asking, it is going to be rate limited by your monetization of inference in a given generation, right? So just like in the past, we would allocate capital to build out cloud based on the demand signal we were seeing and then we would then project the demand, and that’s what we would build it for. So you can think of training essentially as that, right, which is you’re building the next-generation model so that then you have a more capable model that then drives more inference demand, right? So ultimately, even with all the scaling laws and what have you, I think you ultimately will normalize to having a pace.In fact, I think the best way to think about even is given that Moore’s Law effectively is working on the sort of silicon and system side, so it’s just not compute, right? It’s efficiencies in compute. It’s data as well as algorithms. You will want to sort of keep on that curve, which is you really want to refresh your fleet with the Moore’s Law every year and then effectively depreciate it over the period of the life cycle of it. And then the inference demand ultimately will govern how much we invest in training because that’s, I think, at the end of the day, you’re all subject to ultimately demand.OK, so Microsoft will spend money on training, but at a pace dictated by inference usage. Leaving aside the fact that inference usage comes after training, this is a viewpoint that is fundamentally at odds with OpenAI’s still-stated goal of pursuing AGI, which is in some respects, just doing training for training’s sake, to see what you can develop. I guess you could square these circles if you tried, but it sure seems like Microsoft and OpenAI are really, dare I say, misaligned.Meanwhile, Nadella was asked about the OpenAI relationship directly:Since the print 3 months ago, we, investors have been hit with a torrent of media stories about OpenAI and Microsoft. And I’d love to give Microsoft an opportunity to frame the relationship. It seems to me it’s critically important. But we have been, I think, everyone on the line, picking up signals that perhaps Microsoft wants to diversify somewhat at the model layer and offer customers choice…So I’d say, first, the partnership for both sides, that’s OpenAI and Microsoft, has been super beneficial. After all, we were the — we effectively sponsored what is one of the most highest-valued private companies today when we invested in them and really took a bet on them and their innovation 4, 5 years ago. And that has led to great success for Microsoft. That’s led to great success for OpenAI. And we continue to build on it, right? So we serve them with world-class infrastructure on which they do their innovation in terms of models, on top of which we innovate on both the model layer with some of the post-training stuff we do as well as some of the small models we build and then, of course, all of the product innovation, right? One of the things that my own sort of conviction of OpenAI and what they were doing came about when I started seeing something like GitHub Copilot as a product get built or DAX Copilot get built or M365 Copilot get built. So we have a fantastic portfolio of innovation that we build on top of that.And the same also, I would say, we are investors. We feel very, very good about sort of our investment stake in OpenAI. And so our focus — and we’re always in constant dialogue with them in a partnership like this where both sides have achieved mutual success at the pace at which we’ve achieved it. That means we need to kind of push each other to do more, to capture the moment, and that’s what we plan to do, and we intend to keep building on it.If you are not seeing much in this answer, well, that’s the point: Nadella gave a nice summary of the relationship, pointed out that it is set up to be a profitable investment, and gave basically zero assurances to investors that the stories about a fraying relationship weren’t true.GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeAlso note, by the way, that Nadella mentioned that he got conviction about OpenAI when he saw GitHub Copilot. To that end, fromBloomberglast week:Microsoft Corp.’s GitHub has agreed to bake artificial intelligence models from Anthropic and Alphabet Inc.’s Google into a coding assistant used by millions of software developers. At first, customers will be able to use Google’s Gemini and Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet to chat and ask questions, GitHub said Tuesday at its Universe conference in San Francisco. Eventually, the models will be incorporated into the main part of the GitHub Copilot assistant, which can spit out code with a few simple prompts.After teaming up with OpenAI a few years ago, GitHub pioneered the use of generative artificial intelligence to automate tedious parts of the coding process. The company will continue to make the OpenAI models the default setting, but developers will be able to switch to the Google and Anthropic models if they wish, GitHub Chief Executive Officer Thomas Dohmke said in an interview.It’s hard to believe that it was only one year ago that Nadella’s focus onMicrosoft’s October 2023 earnings callwas about the competitive advantage they had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models:It is true that the approach we have taken is a full stack approach all the way from whether it’s ChatGPT or Bing Chat or all our Copilots, all share the same model. So in some sense, one of the things that we do have is very, very high leverage of the one model that we used, which we trained, and then the one model that we are doing inferencing at scale. And that advantage sort of trickles down all the way to both utilization internally, utilization of third parties, and also over time, you can see the sort of stack optimization all the way to the silicon, because the abstraction layer to which the developers are riding is much higher up than low-level kernels, if you will.So, therefore, I think there is a fundamental approach we took, which was a technical approach of saying we’ll have Copilots and Copilot stack all available. That doesn’t mean we don’t have people doing training for open source models or proprietary models. We also have a bunch of open source models. We have a bunch of fine-tuning happening, a bunch of RLHF happening. So there’s all kinds of ways people use it. But the thing is, we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that’s being used for inference across all our first-party SaaS apps, as well as our API in our Azure AI service…The lesson learned from the cloud side is — we’re not running a conglomerate of different businesses, it’s all one tech stack up and down Microsoft’s portfolio, and that, I think, is going to be very important because that discipline, given what the spend like — it will look like for this AI transition any business that’s not disciplined about their capital spend accruing across all their businesses could run into trouble.Fast forward one year and Nadella’s proof-of-concept app, GitHub Copilot, is aggressively de-integrating from OpenAI; this follows onNadella describing models as commodities,investing in Mistral, andnot-acquiring-but-incorporating Inflection AI. Microsoft is aggressively investing in being the app layer for AI, but the AI doesn’t necessarily have to be OpenAI.In short, the Microsoft-OpenAI integration dream is clearly dead. One gets the impression from this call — and from the accounting treatment — that the relationship itself is on life support.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedOpenAI’s Misalignment and Microsoft’s GainDateMonday, November 20, 20232025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025←Meta Earnings, Measuring Meta’s Spending, Meta RecommendationsPresident Trump, Take Two; Big Tech, Little Tech, Chips, and Hardware; Elon Musk’s Triumph→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Microsoft Earnings; Microsoft and OpenAI, Again; GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeTuesday, November 5, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techwas a fun one, and purposely so, given the serious business going on elsewhere. Andrew came up with NBA analogies for every major tech company, while I gave a history lesson on bandwidth and the growth of video on the Internet.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its cloud-computing business last quarter, but a disappointing revenue outlook sparked investor concern about the near-term payoff for the software company’s massive investment in artificial intelligence. Revenue for the tech giant’s Azure cloud business — a core of its AI offering — rose 33% in the quarter through September, beating analysts’ expectations. For the current quarter, the company expects slightly less expansion, projecting Azure growth of between 31% and 32%.Excitement about the potential for generative AI that can create computer code and summarize complex information has helped fuel a run-up in the shares of Microsoft and other tech companies since 2023. Microsoft shares fell after the company unveiled a revenue projection and were down 3.4% in premarket trading Thursday. The Redmond, Wash., company’s overall revenue rose 16% to $65.6 billion as its net income climbed 11% to $24.7 billion. Analysts were expecting revenue of $64.57 billion and net income of $23.15 billion. The company expects revenue for the current quarter, which runs through December, to be between $68.1 billion and $69.1 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting revenue of $69.89 billion for the quarter.Microsoft’s results seemed fine; management said that AI demand in particular was higher than capacity, and as for the forecasted decrease in growth, CFO Amy Hood said onthe earnings call:And you think about 1 point or 2 of decel that we’ve guided to, and the majority of that is due to, unfortunately, some supply pushouts that I mentioned and then Satya reiterated in terms of AI supply coming online that we counted on. The underlying consumption growth is stable Q1 to Q2. And so to your question on some ins and outs, it is certainly some ins and outs. I do, as you heard, have confidence, as we get a good influx of supply across the second half of the year particularly on the AI side, that we’ll be better able to do some supply demand matching and hence, why we’re talking about acceleration in the back half.Remember, Nvidia’s newest Blackwell chips were supposed to come online this quarter, but were delayed; I assume that is the pushout that Hood is referring to. What was interesting was this answer from CEO Satya Nadella about the company’s capex spending priorities:Satya, when you talked about the investment cycle, these models are getting bigger, more expensive, but you also pointed out to how in the inference phase, we’re likely to get paid. How does that cycle look like in inference for Microsoft? Where are the products and the applications that will show up on the Microsoft P&L as a result of the inference phase of AI kicking in?Thanks, Kash. I mean the good news for us is that we’re not waiting for that inference to show up, right? If you sort of think about the point we even made that this is going to be the fastest growth to $10 billion of any business in our history, it’s all inference, right? One of the things that may not be as evident is that we’re not actually selling raw GPUs for other people to train. In fact, that’s sort of a business we turn away because we have so much demand on inference that we are not taking what I would — in fact, there’s a huge adverse selection problem today where people — it’s just a bunch of tech companies still using VC money to buy a bunch of GPUs. We kind of really are not even participating in most of that because we are literally going to the real demand, which is in the enterprise space or our own products like GitHub Copilot or M365 Copilot.So I feel the quality of our revenue is also pretty superior in that context. And that’s what gives us even the conviction, to even Amy’s answers previously, about our capital spend, is if this was just all about sort of a bunch of people training large models and that was all we got, then that would be ultimately still waiting, to your point, for someone to actually have demand, which is real. And in our case, the good news here is we have a diversified portfolio. We’re seeing real demand across all of that portfolio.But wait, what about OpenAI? Don’t they do a lot of training?Microsoft and OpenAI, AgainFirst off, OpenAIfinallyshowed up inMicrosoft’s financial filings, in a note under “Accounting Policies”:We have an investment in OpenAI Global, LLC (“OpenAI”) and have made total funding commitments of $13 billion. The investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.There are three categories of investments:If you own >50% of a company, you are considered the controlling entity, and the underlying company’s financials are consolidated into the parent company’s.If you own between 20% and 50% of a company, you are considered to exert significant influence but not control; in this case the underlying company’s profits and losses are recorded on the parent company’s financial statements as an investment gain or loss.If you own <20% of a company, you are considered to lack significant influence on operations; in this case only dividends from the underlying company are recorded, but not profits or losses.Microsoft, meanwhile, first invested $1 billion in OpenAI’s for-profit entity in 2019, a further $2 billion at some point in the next few years, and a further $10 billion in 2023. The latter deal secured 75% of OpenAI’s profits until its investment was paid back, and then 49% of profits up to a theoretical cap on profits. That, though, was over a year ago, so why hasn’t any of this shown up on Microsoft’s financial statements until now?The first potential reason might be a creative interpretation by Microsoft of its accounting responsibilities given that (1) it only owned a profit share of OpenAI’s for-profit entity which (2) was ultimately owned by a non-profit over which Microsoft exerted no control. That status hasn’t changed yet, but OpenAI is reportedly in the process of figuring out how to transition to a truly for-profit entity, which may have been part of the conditions for its recent $6.6 billion raise at a $157 billion valuation.The second potential reason has to do with the fact that most if not all of Microsoft’s funding came in the form of Azure compute credits.I’ve complained previouslyabout the lack of accounting for these credits, which mostly showed up on Microsoft’s income statement as Azure revenue, but from an OpenAI perspective it also meant the company was probably not operating at a loss, given their compute was “free”. That, by extension, would mean that there wasn’t anything for Microsoft to put on their income statement, so they could dodge the question.That’s clearly no longer the case. This quarter “Other Income” included a line called “Other, net”, that was a loss of $683 million, which included OpenAI; Hood said of the coming quarter:Other income and expense is expected to be roughly negative $1.5 billion, primarily driven by our share of the expected loss from OpenAI, which is accounted for under the equity method. As a reminder, we do not recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on equity method investments.That last sentence is why this isn’t necessarily a big deal; Microsoft isn’t recording the gain in OpenAI’s valuation, and on the flip side, the accounting losses that they will record are capped at the $13 billion they have invested. At the same time, the fact there are cash losses at all, which are accelerating next quarter, are notable; my guess is that OpenAI has used up all of its credits, and is now straight up paying for its compute. Or, alternatively, perhaps they are spending money elsewhere; notethis press release from June:Oracle, Microsoft, and OpenAl are partnering to extend the Microsoft Azure Al platform to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to provide additional capacity for OpenAl. OpenAI is the AI research and development company behind ChatGPT, which provides generative AI services to more than 100 million users every month.“We are delighted to be working with Microsoft and Oracle. OCI will extend Azure’s platform and enable OpenAI to continue to scale,” said Sam Altman, Chief Executive Officer, OpenAI.“The race to build the world’s greatest large language model is on, and it is fueling unlimited demand for Oracle’s Gen2 AI infrastructure,” said Larry Ellison, Oracle Chairman and CTO. “Leaders like OpenAI are choosing OCI because it is the world’s fastest and most cost-effective AI infrastructure.”OCI’s leading AI infrastructure is advancing AI innovation. OpenAI will join thousands of AI innovators across industries worldwide that run their AI workloads on OCI AI infrastructure. Adept, Modal, MosaicML, NVIDIA, Reka, Suno, Together AI, Twelve Labs, xAI, and others use OCI Supercluster to train and inference next-generation AI models.Notice that only two of the three companies have quotes; Microsoft is notable by their absence. Perhaps this is why OpenAI put outthis tweetthe next day:TheNew York Times gave more context last month:After Microsoft backed away from the discussions about additional funding, OpenAI was in a bind. It needed more cash to keep its operations going, and its executives chafed at the exclusivity of the contract. Over the past year, the A.I. company repeatedly tried to negotiate a lower cost and terms that would allow it to buy computing power from other companies, according to seven people familiar with the discussions.In June, Microsoft agreed to an exception in the contract, six people with knowledge of the change said. That allowed OpenAI to sign a roughly $10 billion computing deal with Oracle for additional computing resources, according to two people familiar with the deal. Oracle is providing computers packed with chips suited to building A.I., while Microsoft provides the software that drives the hardware.And in recent weeks, OpenAI and Microsoft negotiated a change to a future contact that reduces how much Microsoft will charge the smaller company for computing power, although the exact terms were unclear, according to a person familiar with the change.I can’t believe I have to be this pedantic, but notice that that OpenAI tweet is in the present tense: “All pre-training of our frontier modelscontinuesto happen on supercomputers built in partnership with Microsoft”. That (1) doesn’t say anything about the future and (2) we have Nadella, on this earnings call, strongly suggesting that Microsoft is primarily spending money on inference. It sure sounds like Microsoft isn’t very invested (literally!) in OpenAI’s future models.To be fair, there was another Nadella question-and-answer that did talk about training:What are the internal constraints or guardrails that Microsoft has when it comes to investing behind these innovations, particularly in relation to the funding of future generations of foundational models, where people are talking about price tags using the tens of billions or even $100 billion plus…?Thank you, Keith, for those questions. I think on the first point, ultimately, when you think about, let’s say, capital outlay for training because that’s essentially what you’re asking, it is going to be rate limited by your monetization of inference in a given generation, right? So just like in the past, we would allocate capital to build out cloud based on the demand signal we were seeing and then we would then project the demand, and that’s what we would build it for. So you can think of training essentially as that, right, which is you’re building the next-generation model so that then you have a more capable model that then drives more inference demand, right? So ultimately, even with all the scaling laws and what have you, I think you ultimately will normalize to having a pace.In fact, I think the best way to think about even is given that Moore’s Law effectively is working on the sort of silicon and system side, so it’s just not compute, right? It’s efficiencies in compute. It’s data as well as algorithms. You will want to sort of keep on that curve, which is you really want to refresh your fleet with the Moore’s Law every year and then effectively depreciate it over the period of the life cycle of it. And then the inference demand ultimately will govern how much we invest in training because that’s, I think, at the end of the day, you’re all subject to ultimately demand.OK, so Microsoft will spend money on training, but at a pace dictated by inference usage. Leaving aside the fact that inference usage comes after training, this is a viewpoint that is fundamentally at odds with OpenAI’s still-stated goal of pursuing AGI, which is in some respects, just doing training for training’s sake, to see what you can develop. I guess you could square these circles if you tried, but it sure seems like Microsoft and OpenAI are really, dare I say, misaligned.Meanwhile, Nadella was asked about the OpenAI relationship directly:Since the print 3 months ago, we, investors have been hit with a torrent of media stories about OpenAI and Microsoft. And I’d love to give Microsoft an opportunity to frame the relationship. It seems to me it’s critically important. But we have been, I think, everyone on the line, picking up signals that perhaps Microsoft wants to diversify somewhat at the model layer and offer customers choice…So I’d say, first, the partnership for both sides, that’s OpenAI and Microsoft, has been super beneficial. After all, we were the — we effectively sponsored what is one of the most highest-valued private companies today when we invested in them and really took a bet on them and their innovation 4, 5 years ago. And that has led to great success for Microsoft. That’s led to great success for OpenAI. And we continue to build on it, right? So we serve them with world-class infrastructure on which they do their innovation in terms of models, on top of which we innovate on both the model layer with some of the post-training stuff we do as well as some of the small models we build and then, of course, all of the product innovation, right? One of the things that my own sort of conviction of OpenAI and what they were doing came about when I started seeing something like GitHub Copilot as a product get built or DAX Copilot get built or M365 Copilot get built. So we have a fantastic portfolio of innovation that we build on top of that.And the same also, I would say, we are investors. We feel very, very good about sort of our investment stake in OpenAI. And so our focus — and we’re always in constant dialogue with them in a partnership like this where both sides have achieved mutual success at the pace at which we’ve achieved it. That means we need to kind of push each other to do more, to capture the moment, and that’s what we plan to do, and we intend to keep building on it.If you are not seeing much in this answer, well, that’s the point: Nadella gave a nice summary of the relationship, pointed out that it is set up to be a profitable investment, and gave basically zero assurances to investors that the stories about a fraying relationship weren’t true.GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeAlso note, by the way, that Nadella mentioned that he got conviction about OpenAI when he saw GitHub Copilot. To that end, fromBloomberglast week:Microsoft Corp.’s GitHub has agreed to bake artificial intelligence models from Anthropic and Alphabet Inc.’s Google into a coding assistant used by millions of software developers. At first, customers will be able to use Google’s Gemini and Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet to chat and ask questions, GitHub said Tuesday at its Universe conference in San Francisco. Eventually, the models will be incorporated into the main part of the GitHub Copilot assistant, which can spit out code with a few simple prompts.After teaming up with OpenAI a few years ago, GitHub pioneered the use of generative artificial intelligence to automate tedious parts of the coding process. The company will continue to make the OpenAI models the default setting, but developers will be able to switch to the Google and Anthropic models if they wish, GitHub Chief Executive Officer Thomas Dohmke said in an interview.It’s hard to believe that it was only one year ago that Nadella’s focus onMicrosoft’s October 2023 earnings callwas about the competitive advantage they had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models:It is true that the approach we have taken is a full stack approach all the way from whether it’s ChatGPT or Bing Chat or all our Copilots, all share the same model. So in some sense, one of the things that we do have is very, very high leverage of the one model that we used, which we trained, and then the one model that we are doing inferencing at scale. And that advantage sort of trickles down all the way to both utilization internally, utilization of third parties, and also over time, you can see the sort of stack optimization all the way to the silicon, because the abstraction layer to which the developers are riding is much higher up than low-level kernels, if you will.So, therefore, I think there is a fundamental approach we took, which was a technical approach of saying we’ll have Copilots and Copilot stack all available. That doesn’t mean we don’t have people doing training for open source models or proprietary models. We also have a bunch of open source models. We have a bunch of fine-tuning happening, a bunch of RLHF happening. So there’s all kinds of ways people use it. But the thing is, we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that’s being used for inference across all our first-party SaaS apps, as well as our API in our Azure AI service…The lesson learned from the cloud side is — we’re not running a conglomerate of different businesses, it’s all one tech stack up and down Microsoft’s portfolio, and that, I think, is going to be very important because that discipline, given what the spend like — it will look like for this AI transition any business that’s not disciplined about their capital spend accruing across all their businesses could run into trouble.Fast forward one year and Nadella’s proof-of-concept app, GitHub Copilot, is aggressively de-integrating from OpenAI; this follows onNadella describing models as commodities,investing in Mistral, andnot-acquiring-but-incorporating Inflection AI. Microsoft is aggressively investing in being the app layer for AI, but the AI doesn’t necessarily have to be OpenAI.In short, the Microsoft-OpenAI integration dream is clearly dead. One gets the impression from this call — and from the accounting treatment — that the relationship itself is on life support.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedOpenAI’s Misalignment and Microsoft’s GainDateMonday, November 20, 20232025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025←Meta Earnings, Measuring Meta’s Spending, Meta RecommendationsPresident Trump, Take Two; Big Tech, Little Tech, Chips, and Hardware; Elon Musk’s Triumph→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techwas a fun one, and purposely so, given the serious business going on elsewhere. Andrew came up with NBA analogies for every major tech company, while I gave a history lesson on bandwidth and the growth of video on the Internet.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its cloud-computing business last quarter, but a disappointing revenue outlook sparked investor concern about the near-term payoff for the software company’s massive investment in artificial intelligence. Revenue for the tech giant’s Azure cloud business — a core of its AI offering — rose 33% in the quarter through September, beating analysts’ expectations. For the current quarter, the company expects slightly less expansion, projecting Azure growth of between 31% and 32%.Excitement about the potential for generative AI that can create computer code and summarize complex information has helped fuel a run-up in the shares of Microsoft and other tech companies since 2023. Microsoft shares fell after the company unveiled a revenue projection and were down 3.4% in premarket trading Thursday. The Redmond, Wash., company’s overall revenue rose 16% to $65.6 billion as its net income climbed 11% to $24.7 billion. Analysts were expecting revenue of $64.57 billion and net income of $23.15 billion. The company expects revenue for the current quarter, which runs through December, to be between $68.1 billion and $69.1 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting revenue of $69.89 billion for the quarter.Microsoft’s results seemed fine; management said that AI demand in particular was higher than capacity, and as for the forecasted decrease in growth, CFO Amy Hood said onthe earnings call:And you think about 1 point or 2 of decel that we’ve guided to, and the majority of that is due to, unfortunately, some supply pushouts that I mentioned and then Satya reiterated in terms of AI supply coming online that we counted on. The underlying consumption growth is stable Q1 to Q2. And so to your question on some ins and outs, it is certainly some ins and outs. I do, as you heard, have confidence, as we get a good influx of supply across the second half of the year particularly on the AI side, that we’ll be better able to do some supply demand matching and hence, why we’re talking about acceleration in the back half.Remember, Nvidia’s newest Blackwell chips were supposed to come online this quarter, but were delayed; I assume that is the pushout that Hood is referring to. What was interesting was this answer from CEO Satya Nadella about the company’s capex spending priorities:Satya, when you talked about the investment cycle, these models are getting bigger, more expensive, but you also pointed out to how in the inference phase, we’re likely to get paid. How does that cycle look like in inference for Microsoft? Where are the products and the applications that will show up on the Microsoft P&L as a result of the inference phase of AI kicking in?Thanks, Kash. I mean the good news for us is that we’re not waiting for that inference to show up, right? If you sort of think about the point we even made that this is going to be the fastest growth to $10 billion of any business in our history, it’s all inference, right? One of the things that may not be as evident is that we’re not actually selling raw GPUs for other people to train. In fact, that’s sort of a business we turn away because we have so much demand on inference that we are not taking what I would — in fact, there’s a huge adverse selection problem today where people — it’s just a bunch of tech companies still using VC money to buy a bunch of GPUs. We kind of really are not even participating in most of that because we are literally going to the real demand, which is in the enterprise space or our own products like GitHub Copilot or M365 Copilot.So I feel the quality of our revenue is also pretty superior in that context. And that’s what gives us even the conviction, to even Amy’s answers previously, about our capital spend, is if this was just all about sort of a bunch of people training large models and that was all we got, then that would be ultimately still waiting, to your point, for someone to actually have demand, which is real. And in our case, the good news here is we have a diversified portfolio. We’re seeing real demand across all of that portfolio.But wait, what about OpenAI? Don’t they do a lot of training?Microsoft and OpenAI, AgainFirst off, OpenAIfinallyshowed up inMicrosoft’s financial filings, in a note under “Accounting Policies”:We have an investment in OpenAI Global, LLC (“OpenAI”) and have made total funding commitments of $13 billion. The investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.There are three categories of investments:If you own >50% of a company, you are considered the controlling entity, and the underlying company’s financials are consolidated into the parent company’s.If you own between 20% and 50% of a company, you are considered to exert significant influence but not control; in this case the underlying company’s profits and losses are recorded on the parent company’s financial statements as an investment gain or loss.If you own <20% of a company, you are considered to lack significant influence on operations; in this case only dividends from the underlying company are recorded, but not profits or losses.Microsoft, meanwhile, first invested $1 billion in OpenAI’s for-profit entity in 2019, a further $2 billion at some point in the next few years, and a further $10 billion in 2023. The latter deal secured 75% of OpenAI’s profits until its investment was paid back, and then 49% of profits up to a theoretical cap on profits. That, though, was over a year ago, so why hasn’t any of this shown up on Microsoft’s financial statements until now?The first potential reason might be a creative interpretation by Microsoft of its accounting responsibilities given that (1) it only owned a profit share of OpenAI’s for-profit entity which (2) was ultimately owned by a non-profit over which Microsoft exerted no control. That status hasn’t changed yet, but OpenAI is reportedly in the process of figuring out how to transition to a truly for-profit entity, which may have been part of the conditions for its recent $6.6 billion raise at a $157 billion valuation.The second potential reason has to do with the fact that most if not all of Microsoft’s funding came in the form of Azure compute credits.I’ve complained previouslyabout the lack of accounting for these credits, which mostly showed up on Microsoft’s income statement as Azure revenue, but from an OpenAI perspective it also meant the company was probably not operating at a loss, given their compute was “free”. That, by extension, would mean that there wasn’t anything for Microsoft to put on their income statement, so they could dodge the question.That’s clearly no longer the case. This quarter “Other Income” included a line called “Other, net”, that was a loss of $683 million, which included OpenAI; Hood said of the coming quarter:Other income and expense is expected to be roughly negative $1.5 billion, primarily driven by our share of the expected loss from OpenAI, which is accounted for under the equity method. As a reminder, we do not recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on equity method investments.That last sentence is why this isn’t necessarily a big deal; Microsoft isn’t recording the gain in OpenAI’s valuation, and on the flip side, the accounting losses that they will record are capped at the $13 billion they have invested. At the same time, the fact there are cash losses at all, which are accelerating next quarter, are notable; my guess is that OpenAI has used up all of its credits, and is now straight up paying for its compute. Or, alternatively, perhaps they are spending money elsewhere; notethis press release from June:Oracle, Microsoft, and OpenAl are partnering to extend the Microsoft Azure Al platform to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to provide additional capacity for OpenAl. OpenAI is the AI research and development company behind ChatGPT, which provides generative AI services to more than 100 million users every month.“We are delighted to be working with Microsoft and Oracle. OCI will extend Azure’s platform and enable OpenAI to continue to scale,” said Sam Altman, Chief Executive Officer, OpenAI.“The race to build the world’s greatest large language model is on, and it is fueling unlimited demand for Oracle’s Gen2 AI infrastructure,” said Larry Ellison, Oracle Chairman and CTO. “Leaders like OpenAI are choosing OCI because it is the world’s fastest and most cost-effective AI infrastructure.”OCI’s leading AI infrastructure is advancing AI innovation. OpenAI will join thousands of AI innovators across industries worldwide that run their AI workloads on OCI AI infrastructure. Adept, Modal, MosaicML, NVIDIA, Reka, Suno, Together AI, Twelve Labs, xAI, and others use OCI Supercluster to train and inference next-generation AI models.Notice that only two of the three companies have quotes; Microsoft is notable by their absence. Perhaps this is why OpenAI put outthis tweetthe next day:TheNew York Times gave more context last month:After Microsoft backed away from the discussions about additional funding, OpenAI was in a bind. It needed more cash to keep its operations going, and its executives chafed at the exclusivity of the contract. Over the past year, the A.I. company repeatedly tried to negotiate a lower cost and terms that would allow it to buy computing power from other companies, according to seven people familiar with the discussions.In June, Microsoft agreed to an exception in the contract, six people with knowledge of the change said. That allowed OpenAI to sign a roughly $10 billion computing deal with Oracle for additional computing resources, according to two people familiar with the deal. Oracle is providing computers packed with chips suited to building A.I., while Microsoft provides the software that drives the hardware.And in recent weeks, OpenAI and Microsoft negotiated a change to a future contact that reduces how much Microsoft will charge the smaller company for computing power, although the exact terms were unclear, according to a person familiar with the change.I can’t believe I have to be this pedantic, but notice that that OpenAI tweet is in the present tense: “All pre-training of our frontier modelscontinuesto happen on supercomputers built in partnership with Microsoft”. That (1) doesn’t say anything about the future and (2) we have Nadella, on this earnings call, strongly suggesting that Microsoft is primarily spending money on inference. It sure sounds like Microsoft isn’t very invested (literally!) in OpenAI’s future models.To be fair, there was another Nadella question-and-answer that did talk about training:What are the internal constraints or guardrails that Microsoft has when it comes to investing behind these innovations, particularly in relation to the funding of future generations of foundational models, where people are talking about price tags using the tens of billions or even $100 billion plus…?Thank you, Keith, for those questions. I think on the first point, ultimately, when you think about, let’s say, capital outlay for training because that’s essentially what you’re asking, it is going to be rate limited by your monetization of inference in a given generation, right? So just like in the past, we would allocate capital to build out cloud based on the demand signal we were seeing and then we would then project the demand, and that’s what we would build it for. So you can think of training essentially as that, right, which is you’re building the next-generation model so that then you have a more capable model that then drives more inference demand, right? So ultimately, even with all the scaling laws and what have you, I think you ultimately will normalize to having a pace.In fact, I think the best way to think about even is given that Moore’s Law effectively is working on the sort of silicon and system side, so it’s just not compute, right? It’s efficiencies in compute. It’s data as well as algorithms. You will want to sort of keep on that curve, which is you really want to refresh your fleet with the Moore’s Law every year and then effectively depreciate it over the period of the life cycle of it. And then the inference demand ultimately will govern how much we invest in training because that’s, I think, at the end of the day, you’re all subject to ultimately demand.OK, so Microsoft will spend money on training, but at a pace dictated by inference usage. Leaving aside the fact that inference usage comes after training, this is a viewpoint that is fundamentally at odds with OpenAI’s still-stated goal of pursuing AGI, which is in some respects, just doing training for training’s sake, to see what you can develop. I guess you could square these circles if you tried, but it sure seems like Microsoft and OpenAI are really, dare I say, misaligned.Meanwhile, Nadella was asked about the OpenAI relationship directly:Since the print 3 months ago, we, investors have been hit with a torrent of media stories about OpenAI and Microsoft. And I’d love to give Microsoft an opportunity to frame the relationship. It seems to me it’s critically important. But we have been, I think, everyone on the line, picking up signals that perhaps Microsoft wants to diversify somewhat at the model layer and offer customers choice…So I’d say, first, the partnership for both sides, that’s OpenAI and Microsoft, has been super beneficial. After all, we were the — we effectively sponsored what is one of the most highest-valued private companies today when we invested in them and really took a bet on them and their innovation 4, 5 years ago. And that has led to great success for Microsoft. That’s led to great success for OpenAI. And we continue to build on it, right? So we serve them with world-class infrastructure on which they do their innovation in terms of models, on top of which we innovate on both the model layer with some of the post-training stuff we do as well as some of the small models we build and then, of course, all of the product innovation, right? One of the things that my own sort of conviction of OpenAI and what they were doing came about when I started seeing something like GitHub Copilot as a product get built or DAX Copilot get built or M365 Copilot get built. So we have a fantastic portfolio of innovation that we build on top of that.And the same also, I would say, we are investors. We feel very, very good about sort of our investment stake in OpenAI. And so our focus — and we’re always in constant dialogue with them in a partnership like this where both sides have achieved mutual success at the pace at which we’ve achieved it. That means we need to kind of push each other to do more, to capture the moment, and that’s what we plan to do, and we intend to keep building on it.If you are not seeing much in this answer, well, that’s the point: Nadella gave a nice summary of the relationship, pointed out that it is set up to be a profitable investment, and gave basically zero assurances to investors that the stories about a fraying relationship weren’t true.GitHub Copilot Adds Gemini and ClaudeAlso note, by the way, that Nadella mentioned that he got conviction about OpenAI when he saw GitHub Copilot. To that end, fromBloomberglast week:Microsoft Corp.’s GitHub has agreed to bake artificial intelligence models from Anthropic and Alphabet Inc.’s Google into a coding assistant used by millions of software developers. At first, customers will be able to use Google’s Gemini and Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet to chat and ask questions, GitHub said Tuesday at its Universe conference in San Francisco. Eventually, the models will be incorporated into the main part of the GitHub Copilot assistant, which can spit out code with a few simple prompts.After teaming up with OpenAI a few years ago, GitHub pioneered the use of generative artificial intelligence to automate tedious parts of the coding process. The company will continue to make the OpenAI models the default setting, but developers will be able to switch to the Google and Anthropic models if they wish, GitHub Chief Executive Officer Thomas Dohmke said in an interview.It’s hard to believe that it was only one year ago that Nadella’s focus onMicrosoft’s October 2023 earnings callwas about the competitive advantage they had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models:It is true that the approach we have taken is a full stack approach all the way from whether it’s ChatGPT or Bing Chat or all our Copilots, all share the same model. So in some sense, one of the things that we do have is very, very high leverage of the one model that we used, which we trained, and then the one model that we are doing inferencing at scale. And that advantage sort of trickles down all the way to both utilization internally, utilization of third parties, and also over time, you can see the sort of stack optimization all the way to the silicon, because the abstraction layer to which the developers are riding is much higher up than low-level kernels, if you will.So, therefore, I think there is a fundamental approach we took, which was a technical approach of saying we’ll have Copilots and Copilot stack all available. That doesn’t mean we don’t have people doing training for open source models or proprietary models. We also have a bunch of open source models. We have a bunch of fine-tuning happening, a bunch of RLHF happening. So there’s all kinds of ways people use it. But the thing is, we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that’s being used for inference across all our first-party SaaS apps, as well as our API in our Azure AI service…The lesson learned from the cloud side is — we’re not running a conglomerate of different businesses, it’s all one tech stack up and down Microsoft’s portfolio, and that, I think, is going to be very important because that discipline, given what the spend like — it will look like for this AI transition any business that’s not disciplined about their capital spend accruing across all their businesses could run into trouble.Fast forward one year and Nadella’s proof-of-concept app, GitHub Copilot, is aggressively de-integrating from OpenAI; this follows onNadella describing models as commodities,investing in Mistral, andnot-acquiring-but-incorporating Inflection AI. Microsoft is aggressively investing in being the app layer for AI, but the AI doesn’t necessarily have to be OpenAI.In short, the Microsoft-OpenAI integration dream is clearly dead. One gets the impression from this call — and from the accounting treatment — that the relationship itself is on life support.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techwas a fun one, and purposely so, given the serious business going on elsewhere. Andrew came up with NBA analogies for every major tech company, while I gave a history lesson on bandwidth and the growth of video on the Internet. Microsoft reported growth in its cloud-computing business last quarter, but a disappointing revenue outlook sparked investor concern about the near-term payoff for the software company’s massive investment in artificial intelligence. Revenue for the tech giant’s Azure cloud business — a core of its AI offering — rose 33% in the quarter through September, beating analysts’ expectations. For the current quarter, the company expects slightly less expansion, projecting Azure growth of between 31% and 32%. Excitement about the potential for generative AI that can create computer code and summarize complex information has helped fuel a run-up in the shares of Microsoft and other tech companies since 2023. Microsoft shares fell after the company unveiled a revenue projection and were down 3.4% in premarket trading Thursday. The Redmond, Wash., company’s overall revenue rose 16% to $65.6 billion as its net income climbed 11% to $24.7 billion. Analysts were expecting revenue of $64.57 billion and net income of $23.15 billion. The company expects revenue for the current quarter, which runs through December, to be between $68.1 billion and $69.1 billion. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were expecting revenue of $69.89 billion for the quarter. And you think about 1 point or 2 of decel that we’ve guided to, and the majority of that is due to, unfortunately, some supply pushouts that I mentioned and then Satya reiterated in terms of AI supply coming online that we counted on. The underlying consumption growth is stable Q1 to Q2. And so to your question on some ins and outs, it is certainly some ins and outs. I do, as you heard, have confidence, as we get a good influx of supply across the second half of the year particularly on the AI side, that we’ll be better able to do some supply demand matching and hence, why we’re talking about acceleration in the back half. Remember, Nvidia’s newest Blackwell chips were supposed to come online this quarter, but were delayed; I assume that is the pushout that Hood is referring to. What was interesting was this answer from CEO Satya Nadella about the company’s capex spending priorities: Satya, when you talked about the investment cycle, these models are getting bigger, more expensive, but you also pointed out to how in the inference phase, we’re likely to get paid. How does that cycle look like in inference for Microsoft? Where are the products and the applications that will show up on the Microsoft P&L as a result of the inference phase of AI kicking in? Thanks, Kash. I mean the good news for us is that we’re not waiting for that inference to show up, right? If you sort of think about the point we even made that this is going to be the fastest growth to $10 billion of any business in our history, it’s all inference, right? One of the things that may not be as evident is that we’re not actually selling raw GPUs for other people to train. In fact, that’s sort of a business we turn away because we have so much demand on inference that we are not taking what I would — in fact, there’s a huge adverse selection problem today where people — it’s just a bunch of tech companies still using VC money to buy a bunch of GPUs. We kind of really are not even participating in most of that because we are literally going to the real demand, which is in the enterprise space or our own products like GitHub Copilot or M365 Copilot. So I feel the quality of our revenue is also pretty superior in that context. And that’s what gives us even the conviction, to even Amy’s answers previously, about our capital spend, is if this was just all about sort of a bunch of people training large models and that was all we got, then that would be ultimately still waiting, to your point, for someone to actually have demand, which is real. And in our case, the good news here is we have a diversified portfolio. We’re seeing real demand across all of that portfolio. Microsoft, meanwhile, first invested $1 billion in OpenAI’s for-profit entity in 2019, a further $2 billion at some point in the next few years, and a further $10 billion in 2023. The latter deal secured 75% of OpenAI’s profits until its investment was paid back, and then 49% of profits up to a theoretical cap on profits. That, though, was over a year ago, so why hasn’t any of this shown up on Microsoft’s financial statements until now? The first potential reason might be a creative interpretation by Microsoft of its accounting responsibilities given that (1) it only owned a profit share of OpenAI’s for-profit entity which (2) was ultimately owned by a non-profit over which Microsoft exerted no control. That status hasn’t changed yet, but OpenAI is reportedly in the process of figuring out how to transition to a truly for-profit entity, which may have been part of the conditions for its recent $6.6 billion raise at a $157 billion valuation. The second potential reason has to do with the fact that most if not all of Microsoft’s funding came in the form of Azure compute credits.I’ve complained previouslyabout the lack of accounting for these credits, which mostly showed up on Microsoft’s income statement as Azure revenue, but from an OpenAI perspective it also meant the company was probably not operating at a loss, given their compute was “free”. That, by extension, would mean that there wasn’t anything for Microsoft to put on their income statement, so they could dodge the question. Other income and expense is expected to be roughly negative $1.5 billion, primarily driven by our share of the expected loss from OpenAI, which is accounted for under the equity method. As a reminder, we do not recognize mark-to-market gains or losses on equity method investments. That last sentence is why this isn’t necessarily a big deal; Microsoft isn’t recording the gain in OpenAI’s valuation, and on the flip side, the accounting losses that they will record are capped at the $13 billion they have invested. At the same time, the fact there are cash losses at all, which are accelerating next quarter, are notable; my guess is that OpenAI has used up all of its credits, and is now straight up paying for its compute. Or, alternatively, perhaps they are spending money elsewhere; notethis press release from June: Oracle, Microsoft, and OpenAl are partnering to extend the Microsoft Azure Al platform to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to provide additional capacity for OpenAl. OpenAI is the AI research and development company behind ChatGPT, which provides generative AI services to more than 100 million users every month. “The race to build the world’s greatest large language model is on, and it is fueling unlimited demand for Oracle’s Gen2 AI infrastructure,” said Larry Ellison, Oracle Chairman and CTO. “Leaders like OpenAI are choosing OCI because it is the world’s fastest and most cost-effective AI infrastructure.” OCI’s leading AI infrastructure is advancing AI innovation. OpenAI will join thousands of AI innovators across industries worldwide that run their AI workloads on OCI AI infrastructure. Adept, Modal, MosaicML, NVIDIA, Reka, Suno, Together AI, Twelve Labs, xAI, and others use OCI Supercluster to train and inference next-generation AI models. After Microsoft backed away from the discussions about additional funding, OpenAI was in a bind. It needed more cash to keep its operations going, and its executives chafed at the exclusivity of the contract. Over the past year, the A.I. company repeatedly tried to negotiate a lower cost and terms that would allow it to buy computing power from other companies, according to seven people familiar with the discussions. In June, Microsoft agreed to an exception in the contract, six people with knowledge of the change said. That allowed OpenAI to sign a roughly $10 billion computing deal with Oracle for additional computing resources, according to two people familiar with the deal. Oracle is providing computers packed with chips suited to building A.I., while Microsoft provides the software that drives the hardware. And in recent weeks, OpenAI and Microsoft negotiated a change to a future contact that reduces how much Microsoft will charge the smaller company for computing power, although the exact terms were unclear, according to a person familiar with the change. I can’t believe I have to be this pedantic, but notice that that OpenAI tweet is in the present tense: “All pre-training of our frontier modelscontinuesto happen on supercomputers built in partnership with Microsoft”. That (1) doesn’t say anything about the future and (2) we have Nadella, on this earnings call, strongly suggesting that Microsoft is primarily spending money on inference. It sure sounds like Microsoft isn’t very invested (literally!) in OpenAI’s future models. What are the internal constraints or guardrails that Microsoft has when it comes to investing behind these innovations, particularly in relation to the funding of future generations of foundational models, where people are talking about price tags using the tens of billions or even $100 billion plus…? Thank you, Keith, for those questions. I think on the first point, ultimately, when you think about, let’s say, capital outlay for training because that’s essentially what you’re asking, it is going to be rate limited by your monetization of inference in a given generation, right? So just like in the past, we would allocate capital to build out cloud based on the demand signal we were seeing and then we would then project the demand, and that’s what we would build it for. So you can think of training essentially as that, right, which is you’re building the next-generation model so that then you have a more capable model that then drives more inference demand, right? So ultimately, even with all the scaling laws and what have you, I think you ultimately will normalize to having a pace. In fact, I think the best way to think about even is given that Moore’s Law effectively is working on the sort of silicon and system side, so it’s just not compute, right? It’s efficiencies in compute. It’s data as well as algorithms. You will want to sort of keep on that curve, which is you really want to refresh your fleet with the Moore’s Law every year and then effectively depreciate it over the period of the life cycle of it. And then the inference demand ultimately will govern how much we invest in training because that’s, I think, at the end of the day, you’re all subject to ultimately demand. OK, so Microsoft will spend money on training, but at a pace dictated by inference usage. Leaving aside the fact that inference usage comes after training, this is a viewpoint that is fundamentally at odds with OpenAI’s still-stated goal of pursuing AGI, which is in some respects, just doing training for training’s sake, to see what you can develop. I guess you could square these circles if you tried, but it sure seems like Microsoft and OpenAI are really, dare I say, misaligned. Since the print 3 months ago, we, investors have been hit with a torrent of media stories about OpenAI and Microsoft. And I’d love to give Microsoft an opportunity to frame the relationship. It seems to me it’s critically important. But we have been, I think, everyone on the line, picking up signals that perhaps Microsoft wants to diversify somewhat at the model layer and offer customers choice… So I’d say, first, the partnership for both sides, that’s OpenAI and Microsoft, has been super beneficial. After all, we were the — we effectively sponsored what is one of the most highest-valued private companies today when we invested in them and really took a bet on them and their innovation 4, 5 years ago. And that has led to great success for Microsoft. That’s led to great success for OpenAI. And we continue to build on it, right? So we serve them with world-class infrastructure on which they do their innovation in terms of models, on top of which we innovate on both the model layer with some of the post-training stuff we do as well as some of the small models we build and then, of course, all of the product innovation, right? One of the things that my own sort of conviction of OpenAI and what they were doing came about when I started seeing something like GitHub Copilot as a product get built or DAX Copilot get built or M365 Copilot get built. So we have a fantastic portfolio of innovation that we build on top of that. And the same also, I would say, we are investors. We feel very, very good about sort of our investment stake in OpenAI. And so our focus — and we’re always in constant dialogue with them in a partnership like this where both sides have achieved mutual success at the pace at which we’ve achieved it. That means we need to kind of push each other to do more, to capture the moment, and that’s what we plan to do, and we intend to keep building on it. If you are not seeing much in this answer, well, that’s the point: Nadella gave a nice summary of the relationship, pointed out that it is set up to be a profitable investment, and gave basically zero assurances to investors that the stories about a fraying relationship weren’t true. Microsoft Corp.’s GitHub has agreed to bake artificial intelligence models from Anthropic and Alphabet Inc.’s Google into a coding assistant used by millions of software developers. At first, customers will be able to use Google’s Gemini and Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet to chat and ask questions, GitHub said Tuesday at its Universe conference in San Francisco. Eventually, the models will be incorporated into the main part of the GitHub Copilot assistant, which can spit out code with a few simple prompts. After teaming up with OpenAI a few years ago, GitHub pioneered the use of generative artificial intelligence to automate tedious parts of the coding process. The company will continue to make the OpenAI models the default setting, but developers will be able to switch to the Google and Anthropic models if they wish, GitHub Chief Executive Officer Thomas Dohmke said in an interview. It’s hard to believe that it was only one year ago that Nadella’s focus onMicrosoft’s October 2023 earnings callwas about the competitive advantage they had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models: It is true that the approach we have taken is a full stack approach all the way from whether it’s ChatGPT or Bing Chat or all our Copilots, all share the same model. So in some sense, one of the things that we do have is very, very high leverage of the one model that we used, which we trained, and then the one model that we are doing inferencing at scale. And that advantage sort of trickles down all the way to both utilization internally, utilization of third parties, and also over time, you can see the sort of stack optimization all the way to the silicon, because the abstraction layer to which the developers are riding is much higher up than low-level kernels, if you will. So, therefore, I think there is a fundamental approach we took, which was a technical approach of saying we’ll have Copilots and Copilot stack all available. That doesn’t mean we don’t have people doing training for open source models or proprietary models. We also have a bunch of open source models. We have a bunch of fine-tuning happening, a bunch of RLHF happening. So there’s all kinds of ways people use it. But the thing is, we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that’s being used for inference across all our first-party SaaS apps, as well as our API in our Azure AI service… The lesson learned from the cloud side is — we’re not running a conglomerate of different businesses, it’s all one tech stack up and down Microsoft’s portfolio, and that, I think, is going to be very important because that discipline, given what the spend like — it will look like for this AI transition any business that’s not disciplined about their capital spend accruing across all their businesses could run into trouble. Fast forward one year and Nadella’s proof-of-concept app, GitHub Copilot, is aggressively de-integrating from OpenAI; this follows onNadella describing models as commodities,investing in Mistral, andnot-acquiring-but-incorporating Inflection AI. Microsoft is aggressively investing in being the app layer for AI, but the AI doesn’t necessarily have to be OpenAI. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025