# [PODCAST] Intel Earnings, TSMC Earnings

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/intel-earnings-tsmc-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI1L2ludGVsLWVhcm5pbmdzLXRzbWMtZWFybmluZ3MvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3NjExNjkxMTYsImlhdCI6MTc1ODU3NzExNiwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcHAucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMgcG9kY2FzdCByc3MiLCJzdWIiOiJjMGVkZDRjMi1lMjczLTQ3YjEtYWNiZS01MGFlOWYxMzg1MTgiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.HIN1tnNQAuZ47Uz8sUGh30B4TYuR7OSE3lc5pa72D_Bf-lm0g9VFGgV-e58JN6U8LMfuXDaZQ7s-7KVhCLQoCHJxFHpb0Hh3X_b3nWKuVZZqLsJ2_rl5MNvhKUw8HGG0V-uTLgTrdJRuBGb1cU9WP3FaGIhvqhWdhGLSyTnCsMjvZGuY82_njIz8PqTO6udBywzm2Gh_z7WWc9pvmqFgZNGjVrERljLXOezxkied4YThXta3nBDI2GC00KklFooGkf38KHBxiimxZgnE6PKnyeOF5V79zbpAzEMz93la8ENNf6-qRHS9z0YvHYHvj3Nmvcw4kAvrj5SR5cmm1S0tMA
**Atlas ID**: 229586
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.891551

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirIntel Earnings, TSMC EarningsTuesday, April 29, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech,we discussed AI companions, with the help of a whole host of listener feedback and arguments;Sharp China, meanwhile, continues to follow the evolution of the Trump trade war.On to the Update:Intel EarningsFromBloomberg:Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer Lip-Bu Tan gave investors a stark diagnosis of the chipmaker’s problems on Thursday, along with the sense that it will take a while to fix them. Tan, delivering his first earnings report as CEO, said Intel’s bureaucratic corporate culture needs a shake-up, so he’s going to cut jobs, remove layers of management and force everyone back to the office. His prescriptions for other areas of malaise — such as Intel’s struggling foundry business, which makes chips for outside customers — were more vague.What’s most clear is Intel’s short-term woes are even worse than feared. The company gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that was well below what analysts projected. And Intel’s chief financial officer warned that a tariff-fueled recession could torpedo chip demand. The grim outlook sent Intel shares sliding by as much as 10% on Friday to $19.34.These earnings were absolutely brutal, andthe earnings callwas worse. Start with the good news: non-GAAP gross margin was three points higher than expected! The problem, however, is that those margins were high because Intel sold far more Raptor Lake chips than expected. Raptor Lake is a 7nm consumer chip that goes into budget systems; it was launched in late 2022. Raptor Lake sales came at the expense of Lunar Lake sales, which is a better processor with worse margins, in large part because it is mostly made by TSMC. In other words, Intel benefited financially from being less competitive at the high end than expected — and this is the highlight!Of course Intel expects sales to (finally) move towards Lunar Lake, but that is only going to kill margins; this is CFO David Zinsner on the earnings call:I would just say that when we look out through the year, we do expect to see our mix on the client side move more to the Lunar Lake and so forth. And as you know, Lunar Lake’s margins are more under pressure given the memories and package. And so that makes the accounting look a little funky. So that will be a headwind to our margins on a go-forward basis. And in addition when we look at 18A, we’re going to be ramping that through the year and there’s startup costs associated with that bringing that up in Arizona. So that’s always going to put some pressure on gross margins through the year as well. I think as you get into ’26, things start to go the other direction. Panther Lake will be ramping more in volume next year. It’s a better margin product than Lunar Lake just on an apples-to-apples basis. But on top of that, as you know, we have 18A on Panther Lake, so it brings the wafers back in to the fabs and we get the margin stacking benefit of that on a kind of consolidated basis. So we’d expect next year to look better.A couple of points here. First, the accounting funkiness is having to pay a foundry a fair price for a competitive part; the question this raises about Panther Lake, which will be built on18A, is whether Intel’s internal transfer pricing is in fact accurate, or if it is anticipating sandbagging losses onto the already money-losing foundry to make its product margins look better? One should, all things being equal, expect TSMC to be able to price more competitively than Intel for foundry services; ergo, if Intel is expecting better margins by virtue of manufacturing internally do they mean better margins for the product group or for the company as a whole? I can buy the latter — that’s what Zinsner seems to be suggesting when he talks about the “margin stacking benefit” — but if Intel is being honest with its accounting than the product margins should be worse.Second, the most dispiriting part of this call was the implicit admission that 18A is a failure in terms of foundry. This was Tan’s answer to a question about foundry wins for the process node that previous CEO Pat Gelsinger staked everything on:I think the priority one for us is — for Intel Foundry is ramping our internal customer, like the Panther Lake I mentioned earlier. And then the next step is basically build the trust with our foundry customer and the PDK, the schedule, to really make sure that we’re really robust on that. And then in terms of the process technology, the priority is really focused on yield, reliability. And also, I think it’s very important to understanding this is a customer service mindset, so that every customer have different design tool, methodology, style. We want to make sure that we really do the pattern matching so that we optimize for their solution they want to drive. So I think it’s kind of a on-two step and then we really continue to drive the efficiency and then so that we can really scale the business.Let me interpret this: “We have no meaningful customer wins for18A, but maybe it can help our consumer product margins by virtue of not needing to outsource to TSMC.” The latter is a good thing, but barely; the problem Intel has is that its own volume is just too small.Consider the news that the company is going to trim its CapEx this year from $20 billion to $18 billion; on one hand, that is small compared to TSMC’s plans to spend $38-$42 billion. On the other hand, Intel is planning to spend ~45% of TSMC’s capex this year but is projecting ~41% of TSMC’s revenue next quarter; that’s a comparative ratio that is actually going to get worse, as TSMC’s revenue is growing while Intel’s is shrinking. In other words, Intel isn’t simply being outspent on an absolute basis, but also looking at significantly less revenue relative to its spend; when you stack this financial disadvantage on top of the company’s complete lack of a consumer service culture — something Tan noted on the call — it’s fair to wonder how Intel ever gets meaningful traction for its foundry business.Indeed, I think I lied above: the truly dispiriting thing about this call is that Tan offered precious little reason to believe in Intel beyond “I have lots of friends in the industry” and “I’m going to execute better”. Both of those may be valid, but wow, this was so rough I found myself wishing for a bit of Gelsinger optimism,misplaced though it may have been. Then again, maybe facing reality is in fact the biggest difference Tan can make.TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. kept its bullish outlook for growth in 2025 after reporting strong first-quarter results, suggesting the world’s biggest chipmaker is confident it can ride out a US-China trade war. The main chipmaker for Nvidia Corp. and Apple Inc. said it still expects mid-20% growth this year and a doubling of AI revenue, mirroring goals it set in January. And it stuck with a capital spending projection of $38 billion to $42 billion for 2025. TSMC’s US stock rose as much as 3.8%, while shares of suppliers including Tokyo Electron Ltd. and Lasertec Corp. climbed in Tokyo.Chief Executive Officer C. C. Wei stressed that demand — particularly for high-end chips critical to developing artificial intelligence — has remained resilient. That may help assuage investors who’ve struggled through a turbulent few days, when US restrictions on the export of Nvidia chips to China and a disappointing report from ASML Holding NV helped trigger a broad market selloff…TSMC, in stark contrast to Intel, is absolutely killing it, and yet you wouldn’t know from the stock price:You would, had you invested at the beginning of this year, been break even on an Intel investment, and significantly down on a TSMC investment; granted, the returns are a lot different if you go back even a year (Intel’s are brutal, obviously), but it’s clear that TSMC is being much more impacted by recent geopolitical events than Intel is, and for good reason: above and beyond their location in Taiwan, TSMC is actually relevant to the global economy in a way that Intel is not.TSMC has, however, even beyond the last few months, suffered from the China overhang, i.e. the reality that any sort of conflict over Taiwan would drive TSMC’s value to zero. What is notable to me, however, and counter towhat I wrote last month, is the depth of TSMC’s commitment to manufacturing in the United States. I was skeptical last month about TSMC’s Arizona investments:At the same time, you can also view this announcement with some amount of cynicism, particularly given the lack of specificity about either timing or process…There is both an optimistic and a pessimistic way to look at this. On the optimistic side that first fab was upgraded to a more advanced 5nm node (TSMC calls it 4nm, but its the third-generation 5nm node); the second fab, meanwhile, will also produce 2nm chips at some point in the future, although not in 2026…In other words, I’m not sure that anything has changed, going as far back as TSMC’s original 2020 announcement. Once the company made the commitment to Arizona it made sense to continue expanding its operations there, to gain leverage on labor if nothing else. To that end, the company is on pace to build one fab for each process in the U.S., and that fab is going to be consistently two processes behind Taiwan. Until TSMC says otherwise — and again, yesterday’s announcement was noticeably quiet in terms of processes and dates — I don’t think anything has changed.In fact, TSMC has said otherwise, including onthis earnings call; here is CEO C.C. Wei:Let me talk about TSMC’s additional USD100 billion investment plan to expand in Arizona. All our overseas decisions are based on our customers’ need, as they value some geographic flexibility, and necessary level of government support. This is also to maximize the value for our shareholders. With a strong collaboration and support from our leading US customers and the US Federal, state, and city government, we recently announced our intention to invest an additional USD100 billion in advanced semiconductor manufacturing in the United States. This expansion includes plans for three additional wafer manufacturing fabs, two advanced packaging fabs, and a major R&D center. Combined with our previously announced plan to build three advanced semiconductor manufacturing fabs in Arizona, this brings our total investment in the US to USD165 billion to support the strong multi-year demand from our customers.Our first fab in Arizona has already successfully entered high-volume production in 4Q ‘24, utilizing N4 process technology, with a yield comparable to our fabs in Taiwan. The construction of our second fab, which will utilize the 3-nanometer process technologies, is already complete, and we are working on speeding up the volume production schedule, based on the strong AI-related demand from our customers. Our third and fourth fab will utilize N2 and A16 process technologies, and with the expectation of receiving all the necessary permits, is scheduled to begin construction later this year. Our fifth and sixth fab will use even more advanced technologies. The construction and ramp schedule for this fab will be based on our customers’ demand.We also plan to build two new advanced packaging facilities and an R&D center in Arizona to complete the AI supply chain. Our expansion plan will enable TSMC to scale up to a GIGAFAB cluster, to support the needs of our leading-edge customers in smartphone, AI, and HPC applications.The first part is not necessarily incompatible with my skeptical view, which expected Arizona fabs to consistently be two steps behind Taiwan; what is notable is this answer from Wei to a question about that R&D center:As I said before, TSMC’s fab never stays stagnant. We always continue to improve it. And we need to establish a major R&D center in Arizona with about 1,000 engineers. That’s a big amount. The focus will be support our manufacturing cluster, improve its technology, and allow it to operate independently.He reiterated this point in another answer:The first purpose is that Arizona fab can operate independently. But of course, we have done — and we are doing it right now to some kind of pathfinding, exploratory work and cooperate with university, blah, blah. It’s actually a lot of activities. 1,000 engineers is not a small amount. Of course, it’s not comparable to TSMC right now, it’s a 10,000 R&D people, but it’s a beginning, okay? So we’ll do a lot more.The single biggest sticking point for any U.S. policy vis-à-vis China isour dependency on Taiwan for chips; along those lines, my skepticism about TSMC’s U.S. expansion has always been not just about the fact it is behind Taiwan, but that those fabs are also fairly useless if Taiwan were taken offline. What is notable here is that Wei is explicitly highlighting that the focus of the new Arizona R&D center is to make the site self-sufficient. In other words, if the worst happens, TSMC seems determined to fill the role that Intel might not be able to. That’s a notable shift, and from the U.S.’s perspective, a welcome one.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Intel and the Danger of IntegrationDateMonday, June 25, 2018The Intel SplitDateTuesday, January 18, 2022←Google Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI ProductsAmazon, Trump, and Tariff Costs; Amazon Haul and Temu; Political Lessons→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Intel Earnings, TSMC EarningsTuesday, April 29, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech,we discussed AI companions, with the help of a whole host of listener feedback and arguments;Sharp China, meanwhile, continues to follow the evolution of the Trump trade war.On to the Update:Intel EarningsFromBloomberg:Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer Lip-Bu Tan gave investors a stark diagnosis of the chipmaker’s problems on Thursday, along with the sense that it will take a while to fix them. Tan, delivering his first earnings report as CEO, said Intel’s bureaucratic corporate culture needs a shake-up, so he’s going to cut jobs, remove layers of management and force everyone back to the office. His prescriptions for other areas of malaise — such as Intel’s struggling foundry business, which makes chips for outside customers — were more vague.What’s most clear is Intel’s short-term woes are even worse than feared. The company gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that was well below what analysts projected. And Intel’s chief financial officer warned that a tariff-fueled recession could torpedo chip demand. The grim outlook sent Intel shares sliding by as much as 10% on Friday to $19.34.These earnings were absolutely brutal, andthe earnings callwas worse. Start with the good news: non-GAAP gross margin was three points higher than expected! The problem, however, is that those margins were high because Intel sold far more Raptor Lake chips than expected. Raptor Lake is a 7nm consumer chip that goes into budget systems; it was launched in late 2022. Raptor Lake sales came at the expense of Lunar Lake sales, which is a better processor with worse margins, in large part because it is mostly made by TSMC. In other words, Intel benefited financially from being less competitive at the high end than expected — and this is the highlight!Of course Intel expects sales to (finally) move towards Lunar Lake, but that is only going to kill margins; this is CFO David Zinsner on the earnings call:I would just say that when we look out through the year, we do expect to see our mix on the client side move more to the Lunar Lake and so forth. And as you know, Lunar Lake’s margins are more under pressure given the memories and package. And so that makes the accounting look a little funky. So that will be a headwind to our margins on a go-forward basis. And in addition when we look at 18A, we’re going to be ramping that through the year and there’s startup costs associated with that bringing that up in Arizona. So that’s always going to put some pressure on gross margins through the year as well. I think as you get into ’26, things start to go the other direction. Panther Lake will be ramping more in volume next year. It’s a better margin product than Lunar Lake just on an apples-to-apples basis. But on top of that, as you know, we have 18A on Panther Lake, so it brings the wafers back in to the fabs and we get the margin stacking benefit of that on a kind of consolidated basis. So we’d expect next year to look better.A couple of points here. First, the accounting funkiness is having to pay a foundry a fair price for a competitive part; the question this raises about Panther Lake, which will be built on18A, is whether Intel’s internal transfer pricing is in fact accurate, or if it is anticipating sandbagging losses onto the already money-losing foundry to make its product margins look better? One should, all things being equal, expect TSMC to be able to price more competitively than Intel for foundry services; ergo, if Intel is expecting better margins by virtue of manufacturing internally do they mean better margins for the product group or for the company as a whole? I can buy the latter — that’s what Zinsner seems to be suggesting when he talks about the “margin stacking benefit” — but if Intel is being honest with its accounting than the product margins should be worse.Second, the most dispiriting part of this call was the implicit admission that 18A is a failure in terms of foundry. This was Tan’s answer to a question about foundry wins for the process node that previous CEO Pat Gelsinger staked everything on:I think the priority one for us is — for Intel Foundry is ramping our internal customer, like the Panther Lake I mentioned earlier. And then the next step is basically build the trust with our foundry customer and the PDK, the schedule, to really make sure that we’re really robust on that. And then in terms of the process technology, the priority is really focused on yield, reliability. And also, I think it’s very important to understanding this is a customer service mindset, so that every customer have different design tool, methodology, style. We want to make sure that we really do the pattern matching so that we optimize for their solution they want to drive. So I think it’s kind of a on-two step and then we really continue to drive the efficiency and then so that we can really scale the business.Let me interpret this: “We have no meaningful customer wins for18A, but maybe it can help our consumer product margins by virtue of not needing to outsource to TSMC.” The latter is a good thing, but barely; the problem Intel has is that its own volume is just too small.Consider the news that the company is going to trim its CapEx this year from $20 billion to $18 billion; on one hand, that is small compared to TSMC’s plans to spend $38-$42 billion. On the other hand, Intel is planning to spend ~45% of TSMC’s capex this year but is projecting ~41% of TSMC’s revenue next quarter; that’s a comparative ratio that is actually going to get worse, as TSMC’s revenue is growing while Intel’s is shrinking. In other words, Intel isn’t simply being outspent on an absolute basis, but also looking at significantly less revenue relative to its spend; when you stack this financial disadvantage on top of the company’s complete lack of a consumer service culture — something Tan noted on the call — it’s fair to wonder how Intel ever gets meaningful traction for its foundry business.Indeed, I think I lied above: the truly dispiriting thing about this call is that Tan offered precious little reason to believe in Intel beyond “I have lots of friends in the industry” and “I’m going to execute better”. Both of those may be valid, but wow, this was so rough I found myself wishing for a bit of Gelsinger optimism,misplaced though it may have been. Then again, maybe facing reality is in fact the biggest difference Tan can make.TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. kept its bullish outlook for growth in 2025 after reporting strong first-quarter results, suggesting the world’s biggest chipmaker is confident it can ride out a US-China trade war. The main chipmaker for Nvidia Corp. and Apple Inc. said it still expects mid-20% growth this year and a doubling of AI revenue, mirroring goals it set in January. And it stuck with a capital spending projection of $38 billion to $42 billion for 2025. TSMC’s US stock rose as much as 3.8%, while shares of suppliers including Tokyo Electron Ltd. and Lasertec Corp. climbed in Tokyo.Chief Executive Officer C. C. Wei stressed that demand — particularly for high-end chips critical to developing artificial intelligence — has remained resilient. That may help assuage investors who’ve struggled through a turbulent few days, when US restrictions on the export of Nvidia chips to China and a disappointing report from ASML Holding NV helped trigger a broad market selloff…TSMC, in stark contrast to Intel, is absolutely killing it, and yet you wouldn’t know from the stock price:You would, had you invested at the beginning of this year, been break even on an Intel investment, and significantly down on a TSMC investment; granted, the returns are a lot different if you go back even a year (Intel’s are brutal, obviously), but it’s clear that TSMC is being much more impacted by recent geopolitical events than Intel is, and for good reason: above and beyond their location in Taiwan, TSMC is actually relevant to the global economy in a way that Intel is not.TSMC has, however, even beyond the last few months, suffered from the China overhang, i.e. the reality that any sort of conflict over Taiwan would drive TSMC’s value to zero. What is notable to me, however, and counter towhat I wrote last month, is the depth of TSMC’s commitment to manufacturing in the United States. I was skeptical last month about TSMC’s Arizona investments:At the same time, you can also view this announcement with some amount of cynicism, particularly given the lack of specificity about either timing or process…There is both an optimistic and a pessimistic way to look at this. On the optimistic side that first fab was upgraded to a more advanced 5nm node (TSMC calls it 4nm, but its the third-generation 5nm node); the second fab, meanwhile, will also produce 2nm chips at some point in the future, although not in 2026…In other words, I’m not sure that anything has changed, going as far back as TSMC’s original 2020 announcement. Once the company made the commitment to Arizona it made sense to continue expanding its operations there, to gain leverage on labor if nothing else. To that end, the company is on pace to build one fab for each process in the U.S., and that fab is going to be consistently two processes behind Taiwan. Until TSMC says otherwise — and again, yesterday’s announcement was noticeably quiet in terms of processes and dates — I don’t think anything has changed.In fact, TSMC has said otherwise, including onthis earnings call; here is CEO C.C. Wei:Let me talk about TSMC’s additional USD100 billion investment plan to expand in Arizona. All our overseas decisions are based on our customers’ need, as they value some geographic flexibility, and necessary level of government support. This is also to maximize the value for our shareholders. With a strong collaboration and support from our leading US customers and the US Federal, state, and city government, we recently announced our intention to invest an additional USD100 billion in advanced semiconductor manufacturing in the United States. This expansion includes plans for three additional wafer manufacturing fabs, two advanced packaging fabs, and a major R&D center. Combined with our previously announced plan to build three advanced semiconductor manufacturing fabs in Arizona, this brings our total investment in the US to USD165 billion to support the strong multi-year demand from our customers.Our first fab in Arizona has already successfully entered high-volume production in 4Q ‘24, utilizing N4 process technology, with a yield comparable to our fabs in Taiwan. The construction of our second fab, which will utilize the 3-nanometer process technologies, is already complete, and we are working on speeding up the volume production schedule, based on the strong AI-related demand from our customers. Our third and fourth fab will utilize N2 and A16 process technologies, and with the expectation of receiving all the necessary permits, is scheduled to begin construction later this year. Our fifth and sixth fab will use even more advanced technologies. The construction and ramp schedule for this fab will be based on our customers’ demand.We also plan to build two new advanced packaging facilities and an R&D center in Arizona to complete the AI supply chain. Our expansion plan will enable TSMC to scale up to a GIGAFAB cluster, to support the needs of our leading-edge customers in smartphone, AI, and HPC applications.The first part is not necessarily incompatible with my skeptical view, which expected Arizona fabs to consistently be two steps behind Taiwan; what is notable is this answer from Wei to a question about that R&D center:As I said before, TSMC’s fab never stays stagnant. We always continue to improve it. And we need to establish a major R&D center in Arizona with about 1,000 engineers. That’s a big amount. The focus will be support our manufacturing cluster, improve its technology, and allow it to operate independently.He reiterated this point in another answer:The first purpose is that Arizona fab can operate independently. But of course, we have done — and we are doing it right now to some kind of pathfinding, exploratory work and cooperate with university, blah, blah. It’s actually a lot of activities. 1,000 engineers is not a small amount. Of course, it’s not comparable to TSMC right now, it’s a 10,000 R&D people, but it’s a beginning, okay? So we’ll do a lot more.The single biggest sticking point for any U.S. policy vis-à-vis China isour dependency on Taiwan for chips; along those lines, my skepticism about TSMC’s U.S. expansion has always been not just about the fact it is behind Taiwan, but that those fabs are also fairly useless if Taiwan were taken offline. What is notable here is that Wei is explicitly highlighting that the focus of the new Arizona R&D center is to make the site self-sufficient. In other words, if the worst happens, TSMC seems determined to fill the role that Intel might not be able to. That’s a notable shift, and from the U.S.’s perspective, a welcome one.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Intel and the Danger of IntegrationDateMonday, June 25, 2018The Intel SplitDateTuesday, January 18, 2022←Google Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI ProductsAmazon, Trump, and Tariff Costs; Amazon Haul and Temu; Political Lessons→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Intel Earnings, TSMC EarningsTuesday, April 29, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech,we discussed AI companions, with the help of a whole host of listener feedback and arguments;Sharp China, meanwhile, continues to follow the evolution of the Trump trade war.On to the Update:Intel EarningsFromBloomberg:Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer Lip-Bu Tan gave investors a stark diagnosis of the chipmaker’s problems on Thursday, along with the sense that it will take a while to fix them. Tan, delivering his first earnings report as CEO, said Intel’s bureaucratic corporate culture needs a shake-up, so he’s going to cut jobs, remove layers of management and force everyone back to the office. His prescriptions for other areas of malaise — such as Intel’s struggling foundry business, which makes chips for outside customers — were more vague.What’s most clear is Intel’s short-term woes are even worse than feared. The company gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that was well below what analysts projected. And Intel’s chief financial officer warned that a tariff-fueled recession could torpedo chip demand. The grim outlook sent Intel shares sliding by as much as 10% on Friday to $19.34.These earnings were absolutely brutal, andthe earnings callwas worse. Start with the good news: non-GAAP gross margin was three points higher than expected! The problem, however, is that those margins were high because Intel sold far more Raptor Lake chips than expected. Raptor Lake is a 7nm consumer chip that goes into budget systems; it was launched in late 2022. Raptor Lake sales came at the expense of Lunar Lake sales, which is a better processor with worse margins, in large part because it is mostly made by TSMC. In other words, Intel benefited financially from being less competitive at the high end than expected — and this is the highlight!Of course Intel expects sales to (finally) move towards Lunar Lake, but that is only going to kill margins; this is CFO David Zinsner on the earnings call:I would just say that when we look out through the year, we do expect to see our mix on the client side move more to the Lunar Lake and so forth. And as you know, Lunar Lake’s margins are more under pressure given the memories and package. And so that makes the accounting look a little funky. So that will be a headwind to our margins on a go-forward basis. And in addition when we look at 18A, we’re going to be ramping that through the year and there’s startup costs associated with that bringing that up in Arizona. So that’s always going to put some pressure on gross margins through the year as well. I think as you get into ’26, things start to go the other direction. Panther Lake will be ramping more in volume next year. It’s a better margin product than Lunar Lake just on an apples-to-apples basis. But on top of that, as you know, we have 18A on Panther Lake, so it brings the wafers back in to the fabs and we get the margin stacking benefit of that on a kind of consolidated basis. So we’d expect next year to look better.A couple of points here. First, the accounting funkiness is having to pay a foundry a fair price for a competitive part; the question this raises about Panther Lake, which will be built on18A, is whether Intel’s internal transfer pricing is in fact accurate, or if it is anticipating sandbagging losses onto the already money-losing foundry to make its product margins look better? One should, all things being equal, expect TSMC to be able to price more competitively than Intel for foundry services; ergo, if Intel is expecting better margins by virtue of manufacturing internally do they mean better margins for the product group or for the company as a whole? I can buy the latter — that’s what Zinsner seems to be suggesting when he talks about the “margin stacking benefit” — but if Intel is being honest with its accounting than the product margins should be worse.Second, the most dispiriting part of this call was the implicit admission that 18A is a failure in terms of foundry. This was Tan’s answer to a question about foundry wins for the process node that previous CEO Pat Gelsinger staked everything on:I think the priority one for us is — for Intel Foundry is ramping our internal customer, like the Panther Lake I mentioned earlier. And then the next step is basically build the trust with our foundry customer and the PDK, the schedule, to really make sure that we’re really robust on that. And then in terms of the process technology, the priority is really focused on yield, reliability. And also, I think it’s very important to understanding this is a customer service mindset, so that every customer have different design tool, methodology, style. We want to make sure that we really do the pattern matching so that we optimize for their solution they want to drive. So I think it’s kind of a on-two step and then we really continue to drive the efficiency and then so that we can really scale the business.Let me interpret this: “We have no meaningful customer wins for18A, but maybe it can help our consumer product margins by virtue of not needing to outsource to TSMC.” The latter is a good thing, but barely; the problem Intel has is that its own volume is just too small.Consider the news that the company is going to trim its CapEx this year from $20 billion to $18 billion; on one hand, that is small compared to TSMC’s plans to spend $38-$42 billion. On the other hand, Intel is planning to spend ~45% of TSMC’s capex this year but is projecting ~41% of TSMC’s revenue next quarter; that’s a comparative ratio that is actually going to get worse, as TSMC’s revenue is growing while Intel’s is shrinking. In other words, Intel isn’t simply being outspent on an absolute basis, but also looking at significantly less revenue relative to its spend; when you stack this financial disadvantage on top of the company’s complete lack of a consumer service culture — something Tan noted on the call — it’s fair to wonder how Intel ever gets meaningful traction for its foundry business.Indeed, I think I lied above: the truly dispiriting thing about this call is that Tan offered precious little reason to believe in Intel beyond “I have lots of friends in the industry” and “I’m going to execute better”. Both of those may be valid, but wow, this was so rough I found myself wishing for a bit of Gelsinger optimism,misplaced though it may have been. Then again, maybe facing reality is in fact the biggest difference Tan can make.TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. kept its bullish outlook for growth in 2025 after reporting strong first-quarter results, suggesting the world’s biggest chipmaker is confident it can ride out a US-China trade war. The main chipmaker for Nvidia Corp. and Apple Inc. said it still expects mid-20% growth this year and a doubling of AI revenue, mirroring goals it set in January. And it stuck with a capital spending projection of $38 billion to $42 billion for 2025. TSMC’s US stock rose as much as 3.8%, while shares of suppliers including Tokyo Electron Ltd. and Lasertec Corp. climbed in Tokyo.Chief Executive Officer C. C. Wei stressed that demand — particularly for high-end chips critical to developing artificial intelligence — has remained resilient. That may help assuage investors who’ve struggled through a turbulent few days, when US restrictions on the export of Nvidia chips to China and a disappointing report from ASML Holding NV helped trigger a broad market selloff…TSMC, in stark contrast to Intel, is absolutely killing it, and yet you wouldn’t know from the stock price:You would, had you invested at the beginning of this year, been break even on an Intel investment, and significantly down on a TSMC investment; granted, the returns are a lot different if you go back even a year (Intel’s are brutal, obviously), but it’s clear that TSMC is being much more impacted by recent geopolitical events than Intel is, and for good reason: above and beyond their location in Taiwan, TSMC is actually relevant to the global economy in a way that Intel is not.TSMC has, however, even beyond the last few months, suffered from the China overhang, i.e. the reality that any sort of conflict over Taiwan would drive TSMC’s value to zero. What is notable to me, however, and counter towhat I wrote last month, is the depth of TSMC’s commitment to manufacturing in the United States. I was skeptical last month about TSMC’s Arizona investments:At the same time, you can also view this announcement with some amount of cynicism, particularly given the lack of specificity about either timing or process…There is both an optimistic and a pessimistic way to look at this. On the optimistic side that first fab was upgraded to a more advanced 5nm node (TSMC calls it 4nm, but its the third-generation 5nm node); the second fab, meanwhile, will also produce 2nm chips at some point in the future, although not in 2026…In other words, I’m not sure that anything has changed, going as far back as TSMC’s original 2020 announcement. Once the company made the commitment to Arizona it made sense to continue expanding its operations there, to gain leverage on labor if nothing else. To that end, the company is on pace to build one fab for each process in the U.S., and that fab is going to be consistently two processes behind Taiwan. Until TSMC says otherwise — and again, yesterday’s announcement was noticeably quiet in terms of processes and dates — I don’t think anything has changed.In fact, TSMC has said otherwise, including onthis earnings call; here is CEO C.C. Wei:Let me talk about TSMC’s additional USD100 billion investment plan to expand in Arizona. All our overseas decisions are based on our customers’ need, as they value some geographic flexibility, and necessary level of government support. This is also to maximize the value for our shareholders. With a strong collaboration and support from our leading US customers and the US Federal, state, and city government, we recently announced our intention to invest an additional USD100 billion in advanced semiconductor manufacturing in the United States. This expansion includes plans for three additional wafer manufacturing fabs, two advanced packaging fabs, and a major R&D center. Combined with our previously announced plan to build three advanced semiconductor manufacturing fabs in Arizona, this brings our total investment in the US to USD165 billion to support the strong multi-year demand from our customers.Our first fab in Arizona has already successfully entered high-volume production in 4Q ‘24, utilizing N4 process technology, with a yield comparable to our fabs in Taiwan. The construction of our second fab, which will utilize the 3-nanometer process technologies, is already complete, and we are working on speeding up the volume production schedule, based on the strong AI-related demand from our customers. Our third and fourth fab will utilize N2 and A16 process technologies, and with the expectation of receiving all the necessary permits, is scheduled to begin construction later this year. Our fifth and sixth fab will use even more advanced technologies. The construction and ramp schedule for this fab will be based on our customers’ demand.We also plan to build two new advanced packaging facilities and an R&D center in Arizona to complete the AI supply chain. Our expansion plan will enable TSMC to scale up to a GIGAFAB cluster, to support the needs of our leading-edge customers in smartphone, AI, and HPC applications.The first part is not necessarily incompatible with my skeptical view, which expected Arizona fabs to consistently be two steps behind Taiwan; what is notable is this answer from Wei to a question about that R&D center:As I said before, TSMC’s fab never stays stagnant. We always continue to improve it. And we need to establish a major R&D center in Arizona with about 1,000 engineers. That’s a big amount. The focus will be support our manufacturing cluster, improve its technology, and allow it to operate independently.He reiterated this point in another answer:The first purpose is that Arizona fab can operate independently. But of course, we have done — and we are doing it right now to some kind of pathfinding, exploratory work and cooperate with university, blah, blah. It’s actually a lot of activities. 1,000 engineers is not a small amount. Of course, it’s not comparable to TSMC right now, it’s a 10,000 R&D people, but it’s a beginning, okay? So we’ll do a lot more.The single biggest sticking point for any U.S. policy vis-à-vis China isour dependency on Taiwan for chips; along those lines, my skepticism about TSMC’s U.S. expansion has always been not just about the fact it is behind Taiwan, but that those fabs are also fairly useless if Taiwan were taken offline. What is notable here is that Wei is explicitly highlighting that the focus of the new Arizona R&D center is to make the site self-sufficient. In other words, if the worst happens, TSMC seems determined to fill the role that Intel might not be able to. That’s a notable shift, and from the U.S.’s perspective, a welcome one.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Intel and the Danger of IntegrationDateMonday, June 25, 2018The Intel SplitDateTuesday, January 18, 2022←Google Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI ProductsAmazon, Trump, and Tariff Costs; Amazon Haul and Temu; Political Lessons→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech,we discussed AI companions, with the help of a whole host of listener feedback and arguments;Sharp China, meanwhile, continues to follow the evolution of the Trump trade war.On to the Update:Intel EarningsFromBloomberg:Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer Lip-Bu Tan gave investors a stark diagnosis of the chipmaker’s problems on Thursday, along with the sense that it will take a while to fix them. Tan, delivering his first earnings report as CEO, said Intel’s bureaucratic corporate culture needs a shake-up, so he’s going to cut jobs, remove layers of management and force everyone back to the office. His prescriptions for other areas of malaise — such as Intel’s struggling foundry business, which makes chips for outside customers — were more vague.What’s most clear is Intel’s short-term woes are even worse than feared. The company gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that was well below what analysts projected. And Intel’s chief financial officer warned that a tariff-fueled recession could torpedo chip demand. The grim outlook sent Intel shares sliding by as much as 10% on Friday to $19.34.These earnings were absolutely brutal, andthe earnings callwas worse. Start with the good news: non-GAAP gross margin was three points higher than expected! The problem, however, is that those margins were high because Intel sold far more Raptor Lake chips than expected. Raptor Lake is a 7nm consumer chip that goes into budget systems; it was launched in late 2022. Raptor Lake sales came at the expense of Lunar Lake sales, which is a better processor with worse margins, in large part because it is mostly made by TSMC. In other words, Intel benefited financially from being less competitive at the high end than expected — and this is the highlight!Of course Intel expects sales to (finally) move towards Lunar Lake, but that is only going to kill margins; this is CFO David Zinsner on the earnings call:I would just say that when we look out through the year, we do expect to see our mix on the client side move more to the Lunar Lake and so forth. And as you know, Lunar Lake’s margins are more under pressure given the memories and package. And so that makes the accounting look a little funky. So that will be a headwind to our margins on a go-forward basis. And in addition when we look at 18A, we’re going to be ramping that through the year and there’s startup costs associated with that bringing that up in Arizona. So that’s always going to put some pressure on gross margins through the year as well. I think as you get into ’26, things start to go the other direction. Panther Lake will be ramping more in volume next year. It’s a better margin product than Lunar Lake just on an apples-to-apples basis. But on top of that, as you know, we have 18A on Panther Lake, so it brings the wafers back in to the fabs and we get the margin stacking benefit of that on a kind of consolidated basis. So we’d expect next year to look better.A couple of points here. First, the accounting funkiness is having to pay a foundry a fair price for a competitive part; the question this raises about Panther Lake, which will be built on18A, is whether Intel’s internal transfer pricing is in fact accurate, or if it is anticipating sandbagging losses onto the already money-losing foundry to make its product margins look better? One should, all things being equal, expect TSMC to be able to price more competitively than Intel for foundry services; ergo, if Intel is expecting better margins by virtue of manufacturing internally do they mean better margins for the product group or for the company as a whole? I can buy the latter — that’s what Zinsner seems to be suggesting when he talks about the “margin stacking benefit” — but if Intel is being honest with its accounting than the product margins should be worse.Second, the most dispiriting part of this call was the implicit admission that 18A is a failure in terms of foundry. This was Tan’s answer to a question about foundry wins for the process node that previous CEO Pat Gelsinger staked everything on:I think the priority one for us is — for Intel Foundry is ramping our internal customer, like the Panther Lake I mentioned earlier. And then the next step is basically build the trust with our foundry customer and the PDK, the schedule, to really make sure that we’re really robust on that. And then in terms of the process technology, the priority is really focused on yield, reliability. And also, I think it’s very important to understanding this is a customer service mindset, so that every customer have different design tool, methodology, style. We want to make sure that we really do the pattern matching so that we optimize for their solution they want to drive. So I think it’s kind of a on-two step and then we really continue to drive the efficiency and then so that we can really scale the business.Let me interpret this: “We have no meaningful customer wins for18A, but maybe it can help our consumer product margins by virtue of not needing to outsource to TSMC.” The latter is a good thing, but barely; the problem Intel has is that its own volume is just too small.Consider the news that the company is going to trim its CapEx this year from $20 billion to $18 billion; on one hand, that is small compared to TSMC’s plans to spend $38-$42 billion. On the other hand, Intel is planning to spend ~45% of TSMC’s capex this year but is projecting ~41% of TSMC’s revenue next quarter; that’s a comparative ratio that is actually going to get worse, as TSMC’s revenue is growing while Intel’s is shrinking. In other words, Intel isn’t simply being outspent on an absolute basis, but also looking at significantly less revenue relative to its spend; when you stack this financial disadvantage on top of the company’s complete lack of a consumer service culture — something Tan noted on the call — it’s fair to wonder how Intel ever gets meaningful traction for its foundry business.Indeed, I think I lied above: the truly dispiriting thing about this call is that Tan offered precious little reason to believe in Intel beyond “I have lots of friends in the industry” and “I’m going to execute better”. Both of those may be valid, but wow, this was so rough I found myself wishing for a bit of Gelsinger optimism,misplaced though it may have been. Then again, maybe facing reality is in fact the biggest difference Tan can make.TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. kept its bullish outlook for growth in 2025 after reporting strong first-quarter results, suggesting the world’s biggest chipmaker is confident it can ride out a US-China trade war. The main chipmaker for Nvidia Corp. and Apple Inc. said it still expects mid-20% growth this year and a doubling of AI revenue, mirroring goals it set in January. And it stuck with a capital spending projection of $38 billion to $42 billion for 2025. TSMC’s US stock rose as much as 3.8%, while shares of suppliers including Tokyo Electron Ltd. and Lasertec Corp. climbed in Tokyo.Chief Executive Officer C. C. Wei stressed that demand — particularly for high-end chips critical to developing artificial intelligence — has remained resilient. That may help assuage investors who’ve struggled through a turbulent few days, when US restrictions on the export of Nvidia chips to China and a disappointing report from ASML Holding NV helped trigger a broad market selloff…TSMC, in stark contrast to Intel, is absolutely killing it, and yet you wouldn’t know from the stock price:You would, had you invested at the beginning of this year, been break even on an Intel investment, and significantly down on a TSMC investment; granted, the returns are a lot different if you go back even a year (Intel’s are brutal, obviously), but it’s clear that TSMC is being much more impacted by recent geopolitical events than Intel is, and for good reason: above and beyond their location in Taiwan, TSMC is actually relevant to the global economy in a way that Intel is not.TSMC has, however, even beyond the last few months, suffered from the China overhang, i.e. the reality that any sort of conflict over Taiwan would drive TSMC’s value to zero. What is notable to me, however, and counter towhat I wrote last month, is the depth of TSMC’s commitment to manufacturing in the United States. I was skeptical last month about TSMC’s Arizona investments:At the same time, you can also view this announcement with some amount of cynicism, particularly given the lack of specificity about either timing or process…There is both an optimistic and a pessimistic way to look at this. On the optimistic side that first fab was upgraded to a more advanced 5nm node (TSMC calls it 4nm, but its the third-generation 5nm node); the second fab, meanwhile, will also produce 2nm chips at some point in the future, although not in 2026…In other words, I’m not sure that anything has changed, going as far back as TSMC’s original 2020 announcement. Once the company made the commitment to Arizona it made sense to continue expanding its operations there, to gain leverage on labor if nothing else. To that end, the company is on pace to build one fab for each process in the U.S., and that fab is going to be consistently two processes behind Taiwan. Until TSMC says otherwise — and again, yesterday’s announcement was noticeably quiet in terms of processes and dates — I don’t think anything has changed.In fact, TSMC has said otherwise, including onthis earnings call; here is CEO C.C. Wei:Let me talk about TSMC’s additional USD100 billion investment plan to expand in Arizona. All our overseas decisions are based on our customers’ need, as they value some geographic flexibility, and necessary level of government support. This is also to maximize the value for our shareholders. With a strong collaboration and support from our leading US customers and the US Federal, state, and city government, we recently announced our intention to invest an additional USD100 billion in advanced semiconductor manufacturing in the United States. This expansion includes plans for three additional wafer manufacturing fabs, two advanced packaging fabs, and a major R&D center. Combined with our previously announced plan to build three advanced semiconductor manufacturing fabs in Arizona, this brings our total investment in the US to USD165 billion to support the strong multi-year demand from our customers.Our first fab in Arizona has already successfully entered high-volume production in 4Q ‘24, utilizing N4 process technology, with a yield comparable to our fabs in Taiwan. The construction of our second fab, which will utilize the 3-nanometer process technologies, is already complete, and we are working on speeding up the volume production schedule, based on the strong AI-related demand from our customers. Our third and fourth fab will utilize N2 and A16 process technologies, and with the expectation of receiving all the necessary permits, is scheduled to begin construction later this year. Our fifth and sixth fab will use even more advanced technologies. The construction and ramp schedule for this fab will be based on our customers’ demand.We also plan to build two new advanced packaging facilities and an R&D center in Arizona to complete the AI supply chain. Our expansion plan will enable TSMC to scale up to a GIGAFAB cluster, to support the needs of our leading-edge customers in smartphone, AI, and HPC applications.The first part is not necessarily incompatible with my skeptical view, which expected Arizona fabs to consistently be two steps behind Taiwan; what is notable is this answer from Wei to a question about that R&D center:As I said before, TSMC’s fab never stays stagnant. We always continue to improve it. And we need to establish a major R&D center in Arizona with about 1,000 engineers. That’s a big amount. The focus will be support our manufacturing cluster, improve its technology, and allow it to operate independently.He reiterated this point in another answer:The first purpose is that Arizona fab can operate independently. But of course, we have done — and we are doing it right now to some kind of pathfinding, exploratory work and cooperate with university, blah, blah. It’s actually a lot of activities. 1,000 engineers is not a small amount. Of course, it’s not comparable to TSMC right now, it’s a 10,000 R&D people, but it’s a beginning, okay? So we’ll do a lot more.The single biggest sticking point for any U.S. policy vis-à-vis China isour dependency on Taiwan for chips; along those lines, my skepticism about TSMC’s U.S. expansion has always been not just about the fact it is behind Taiwan, but that those fabs are also fairly useless if Taiwan were taken offline. What is notable here is that Wei is explicitly highlighting that the focus of the new Arizona R&D center is to make the site self-sufficient. In other words, if the worst happens, TSMC seems determined to fill the role that Intel might not be able to. That’s a notable shift, and from the U.S.’s perspective, a welcome one.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer Lip-Bu Tan gave investors a stark diagnosis of the chipmaker’s problems on Thursday, along with the sense that it will take a while to fix them. Tan, delivering his first earnings report as CEO, said Intel’s bureaucratic corporate culture needs a shake-up, so he’s going to cut jobs, remove layers of management and force everyone back to the office. His prescriptions for other areas of malaise — such as Intel’s struggling foundry business, which makes chips for outside customers — were more vague. What’s most clear is Intel’s short-term woes are even worse than feared. The company gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that was well below what analysts projected. And Intel’s chief financial officer warned that a tariff-fueled recession could torpedo chip demand. The grim outlook sent Intel shares sliding by as much as 10% on Friday to $19.34. These earnings were absolutely brutal, andthe earnings callwas worse. Start with the good news: non-GAAP gross margin was three points higher than expected! The problem, however, is that those margins were high because Intel sold far more Raptor Lake chips than expected. Raptor Lake is a 7nm consumer chip that goes into budget systems; it was launched in late 2022. Raptor Lake sales came at the expense of Lunar Lake sales, which is a better processor with worse margins, in large part because it is mostly made by TSMC. In other words, Intel benefited financially from being less competitive at the high end than expected — and this is the highlight! I would just say that when we look out through the year, we do expect to see our mix on the client side move more to the Lunar Lake and so forth. And as you know, Lunar Lake’s margins are more under pressure given the memories and package. And so that makes the accounting look a little funky. So that will be a headwind to our margins on a go-forward basis. And in addition when we look at 18A, we’re going to be ramping that through the year and there’s startup costs associated with that bringing that up in Arizona. So that’s always going to put some pressure on gross margins through the year as well. I think as you get into ’26, things start to go the other direction. Panther Lake will be ramping more in volume next year. It’s a better margin product than Lunar Lake just on an apples-to-apples basis. But on top of that, as you know, we have 18A on Panther Lake, so it brings the wafers back in to the fabs and we get the margin stacking benefit of that on a kind of consolidated basis. So we’d expect next year to look better. A couple of points here. First, the accounting funkiness is having to pay a foundry a fair price for a competitive part; the question this raises about Panther Lake, which will be built on18A, is whether Intel’s internal transfer pricing is in fact accurate, or if it is anticipating sandbagging losses onto the already money-losing foundry to make its product margins look better? One should, all things being equal, expect TSMC to be able to price more competitively than Intel for foundry services; ergo, if Intel is expecting better margins by virtue of manufacturing internally do they mean better margins for the product group or for the company as a whole? I can buy the latter — that’s what Zinsner seems to be suggesting when he talks about the “margin stacking benefit” — but if Intel is being honest with its accounting than the product margins should be worse. Second, the most dispiriting part of this call was the implicit admission that 18A is a failure in terms of foundry. This was Tan’s answer to a question about foundry wins for the process node that previous CEO Pat Gelsinger staked everything on: I think the priority one for us is — for Intel Foundry is ramping our internal customer, like the Panther Lake I mentioned earlier. And then the next step is basically build the trust with our foundry customer and the PDK, the schedule, to really make sure that we’re really robust on that. And then in terms of the process technology, the priority is really focused on yield, reliability. And also, I think it’s very important to understanding this is a customer service mindset, so that every customer have different design tool, methodology, style. We want to make sure that we really do the pattern matching so that we optimize for their solution they want to drive. So I think it’s kind of a on-two step and then we really continue to drive the efficiency and then so that we can really scale the business. Let me interpret this: “We have no meaningful customer wins for18A, but maybe it can help our consumer product margins by virtue of not needing to outsource to TSMC.” The latter is a good thing, but barely; the problem Intel has is that its own volume is just too small. Consider the news that the company is going to trim its CapEx this year from $20 billion to $18 billion; on one hand, that is small compared to TSMC’s plans to spend $38-$42 billion. On the other hand, Intel is planning to spend ~45% of TSMC’s capex this year but is projecting ~41% of TSMC’s revenue next quarter; that’s a comparative ratio that is actually going to get worse, as TSMC’s revenue is growing while Intel’s is shrinking. In other words, Intel isn’t simply being outspent on an absolute basis, but also looking at significantly less revenue relative to its spend; when you stack this financial disadvantage on top of the company’s complete lack of a consumer service culture — something Tan noted on the call — it’s fair to wonder how Intel ever gets meaningful traction for its foundry business. Indeed, I think I lied above: the truly dispiriting thing about this call is that Tan offered precious little reason to believe in Intel beyond “I have lots of friends in the industry” and “I’m going to execute better”. Both of those may be valid, but wow, this was so rough I found myself wishing for a bit of Gelsinger optimism,misplaced though it may have been. Then again, maybe facing reality is in fact the biggest difference Tan can make. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. kept its bullish outlook for growth in 2025 after reporting strong first-quarter results, suggesting the world’s biggest chipmaker is confident it can ride out a US-China trade war. The main chipmaker for Nvidia Corp. and Apple Inc. said it still expects mid-20% growth this year and a doubling of AI revenue, mirroring goals it set in January. And it stuck with a capital spending projection of $38 billion to $42 billion for 2025. TSMC’s US stock rose as much as 3.8%, while shares of suppliers including Tokyo Electron Ltd. and Lasertec Corp. climbed in Tokyo. Chief Executive Officer C. C. Wei stressed that demand — particularly for high-end chips critical to developing artificial intelligence — has remained resilient. That may help assuage investors who’ve struggled through a turbulent few days, when US restrictions on the export of Nvidia chips to China and a disappointing report from ASML Holding NV helped trigger a broad market selloff… You would, had you invested at the beginning of this year, been break even on an Intel investment, and significantly down on a TSMC investment; granted, the returns are a lot different if you go back even a year (Intel’s are brutal, obviously), but it’s clear that TSMC is being much more impacted by recent geopolitical events than Intel is, and for good reason: above and beyond their location in Taiwan, TSMC is actually relevant to the global economy in a way that Intel is not. TSMC has, however, even beyond the last few months, suffered from the China overhang, i.e. the reality that any sort of conflict over Taiwan would drive TSMC’s value to zero. What is notable to me, however, and counter towhat I wrote last month, is the depth of TSMC’s commitment to manufacturing in the United States. I was skeptical last month about TSMC’s Arizona investments: At the same time, you can also view this announcement with some amount of cynicism, particularly given the lack of specificity about either timing or process…There is both an optimistic and a pessimistic way to look at this. On the optimistic side that first fab was upgraded to a more advanced 5nm node (TSMC calls it 4nm, but its the third-generation 5nm node); the second fab, meanwhile, will also produce 2nm chips at some point in the future, although not in 2026… In other words, I’m not sure that anything has changed, going as far back as TSMC’s original 2020 announcement. Once the company made the commitment to Arizona it made sense to continue expanding its operations there, to gain leverage on labor if nothing else. To that end, the company is on pace to build one fab for each process in the U.S., and that fab is going to be consistently two processes behind Taiwan. Until TSMC says otherwise — and again, yesterday’s announcement was noticeably quiet in terms of processes and dates — I don’t think anything has changed. Let me talk about TSMC’s additional USD100 billion investment plan to expand in Arizona. All our overseas decisions are based on our customers’ need, as they value some geographic flexibility, and necessary level of government support. This is also to maximize the value for our shareholders. With a strong collaboration and support from our leading US customers and the US Federal, state, and city government, we recently announced our intention to invest an additional USD100 billion in advanced semiconductor manufacturing in the United States. This expansion includes plans for three additional wafer manufacturing fabs, two advanced packaging fabs, and a major R&D center. Combined with our previously announced plan to build three advanced semiconductor manufacturing fabs in Arizona, this brings our total investment in the US to USD165 billion to support the strong multi-year demand from our customers. Our first fab in Arizona has already successfully entered high-volume production in 4Q ‘24, utilizing N4 process technology, with a yield comparable to our fabs in Taiwan. The construction of our second fab, which will utilize the 3-nanometer process technologies, is already complete, and we are working on speeding up the volume production schedule, based on the strong AI-related demand from our customers. Our third and fourth fab will utilize N2 and A16 process technologies, and with the expectation of receiving all the necessary permits, is scheduled to begin construction later this year. Our fifth and sixth fab will use even more advanced technologies. The construction and ramp schedule for this fab will be based on our customers’ demand. We also plan to build two new advanced packaging facilities and an R&D center in Arizona to complete the AI supply chain. Our expansion plan will enable TSMC to scale up to a GIGAFAB cluster, to support the needs of our leading-edge customers in smartphone, AI, and HPC applications. The first part is not necessarily incompatible with my skeptical view, which expected Arizona fabs to consistently be two steps behind Taiwan; what is notable is this answer from Wei to a question about that R&D center: As I said before, TSMC’s fab never stays stagnant. We always continue to improve it. And we need to establish a major R&D center in Arizona with about 1,000 engineers. That’s a big amount. The focus will be support our manufacturing cluster, improve its technology, and allow it to operate independently. The first purpose is that Arizona fab can operate independently. But of course, we have done — and we are doing it right now to some kind of pathfinding, exploratory work and cooperate with university, blah, blah. It’s actually a lot of activities. 1,000 engineers is not a small amount. Of course, it’s not comparable to TSMC right now, it’s a 10,000 R&D people, but it’s a beginning, okay? So we’ll do a lot more. The single biggest sticking point for any U.S. policy vis-à-vis China isour dependency on Taiwan for chips; along those lines, my skepticism about TSMC’s U.S. expansion has always been not just about the fact it is behind Taiwan, but that those fabs are also fairly useless if Taiwan were taken offline. What is notable here is that Wei is explicitly highlighting that the focus of the new Arizona R&D center is to make the site self-sufficient. In other words, if the worst happens, TSMC seems determined to fill the role that Intel might not be able to. That’s a notable shift, and from the U.S.’s perspective, a welcome one. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025