# [PODCAST] How the Navy came to protect cargo ships

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/02/16/1197958269/freedom-of-the-seas-houthis-yemen
**Atlas ID**: 229476
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.843618

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How Houthi attacks on ships are upending a hard fought 'freedom of the seas' : Planet MoneyTheGenco Picardyis not an American ship. It doesn't pay U.S. taxes, none of its crew are U.S. nationals, and when it sailed through the Red Sea last month, it wasn't carrying cargo to or from an American port.But when the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, attacked the ship, the crew called the U.S. Navy. That same day, the Navy fired missiles at Houthi sites.On today's show: How did protecting the safe passage of other countries' ships in the Red Sea become a job for the U.S. military?  It goes back to an idea called Freedom of the Seas, an idea that started out as an abstract pipe dream when it was coined in the early 1600s – but has become a pillar of the global economy.This episode was hosted by Alex Mayyasi and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, edited by Molly Messick, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez, with help from Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkHow the Navy came to protect cargo shipsFebruary 16, 20245:05 PM ETByAlex Mayyasi,Nick Fountain,Molly Messick,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerHow the Navy came to protect cargo shipsListen·19:5219:52TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958269/1232106015" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageThe cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide captiontoggle captionIndian Navy/APThe cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APTheGenco Picardyis not an American ship. None of its crew are U.S. nationals, and when it sailed through the Red Sea last month, it wasn't carrying cargo to or from an American port.But when the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, attacked the ship, the crew called the U.S. Navy. That same day, the Navy fired missiles at Houthi sites.On today's show: How did protecting the safe passage of other countries' ships in the Red Sea become a job for the U.S. military?  It goes back to an idea called Freedom of the Seas, an idea that started out as an abstract pipe dream when it was coined in the early 1600s – but has become a pillar of the global economy.Sponsor MessageThis episode was hosted by Alex Mayyasi and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, edited by Molly Messick, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez, with help from Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Planet MoneyMid-East conflict escalation, two indicatorsHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Step Forward," "The Captain," and "Inroads"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor How the Navy came to protect cargo shipsListen·19:5219:52TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958269/1232106015" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript How the Navy came to protect cargo shipsListen·19:5219:52TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958269/1232106015" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958269/1232106015" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageThe cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide captiontoggle captionIndian Navy/APThe cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APTheGenco Picardyis not an American ship. None of its crew are U.S. nationals, and when it sailed through the Red Sea last month, it wasn't carrying cargo to or from an American port.But when the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, attacked the ship, the crew called the U.S. Navy. That same day, the Navy fired missiles at Houthi sites.On today's show: How did protecting the safe passage of other countries' ships in the Red Sea become a job for the U.S. military?  It goes back to an idea called Freedom of the Seas, an idea that started out as an abstract pipe dream when it was coined in the early 1600s – but has become a pillar of the global economy.Sponsor MessageThis episode was hosted by Alex Mayyasi and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, edited by Molly Messick, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez, with help from Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Planet MoneyMid-East conflict escalation, two indicatorsHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Step Forward," "The Captain," and "Inroads" Enlarge this imageThe cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide captiontoggle captionIndian Navy/APThe cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/AP The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide captiontoggle captionIndian Navy/AP The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide captiontoggle caption The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide caption The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/APhide caption The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/AP The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza.Indian Navy/AP The cargo ship Genco Picardy was hit by a low-grade missile in the Gulf of Aden in January. In recent months, the Houthis, a tribal militant group from Yemen, have launched attacks on ships in response, they say, to Israel's war in Gaza. On today's show: How did protecting the safe passage of other countries' ships in the Red Sea become a job for the U.S. military?  It goes back to an idea called Freedom of the Seas, an idea that started out as an abstract pipe dream when it was coined in the early 1600s – but has become a pillar of the global economy. This episode was hosted by Alex Mayyasi and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, edited by Molly Messick, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez, with help from Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra