# [PODCAST] SUMMER SCHOOL 5: Car Parts, Celery & The Labor Market

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2022/08/10/1116825744/planet-money-summer-school-5-car-parts-celery-the-labor-market
**Atlas ID**: 229517
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.850714

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How the job market works and which jobs get replaced by robots : Planet MoneyYou can learn a lot about a person from their job. The same can be said of an economy. The market for jobs can us a lot about how the economy is doing, but more importantly, it is where we look to see who the economy is working for, and who is left behind. In today's lesson we'll visit two workplaces each facing a different labor puzzle. At one end, there's the question of when to replace a worker with a robot, and what it is like to be that worker waiting for the robots to come. We'll also visit a farm where raising wages aren't enough to attract the workers needed to do the work. How wages are set, and who gets the raises on this session of Summer School. | Subscribe to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. |AtthisSummer School, phones ARE allowed during class... Check out this week's PMTikTok!| Listen to past seasons of Summer Schoolhere. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkPlanet Money Summer School 5: Car Parts, Celery & The Labor MarketAugust 10, 20228:38 PM ETByStacey Vanek Smith,Chana Joffe-Walt,Adam DavidsonPlanet Money Summer School 5: Car Parts, Celery & The Labor MarketListen·32:4732:47TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1116825744/1198959952" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageJames Yang for NPRJames Yang for NPRThere's a lot in a job.What a person does for a living can say a lot about their interests, areas of expertise, and lifestyle. Similarly, the types of jobs being created or lost in the economy can tell us a lot about the direction we're all heading.Over the last hundred years or so, there has been a massive shift in our national economic identity in large part driven by the transition from an economy based on labor-intensive, working-class, manufacturing jobs that producegoodsto an economy more driven by theservicesector, where more and more jobs require specialized training or higher education.Sponsor MessageThis transition has upsides. Jobs tend to be less dangerous, many goods are getting cheaper, and many workers have access to comforts that a turn-of-the-century factory worker couldn't have imagined even in their wildest dreams.However, our shiny new skill-based economy also means dwindling job opportunities for workers without access to the education or training to allow them to compete for high paying roles with a lot of long-term job security.Today's lesson is a story from the frontlines of an economic transition. We travel to a factory, once the symbol of our strong manufacturing economy, where today, all of the forces influencing the transition are colliding at once and workers and business owners alike are being forced to adjust on the fly. We get inside the decision making process of when to replace a worker with a machine.Then we travel to a farm where even increased wages aren't enough to attract the workers needed. International pressure and cheaper food from abroad prevents higher wages. We'll look how immigration and trade policy affect wages and the supply of labor... and of celery.Concepts we cover:Cyclical UnemploymentStructural UnemploymentSkilled Workers and Low-Wage WorkersEfficiency WagesHomework:Look in the news for stories about hirings and layoffs. What kinds of jobs are being lost? What kind are being gained? Are the job losses a result of structural unemployment or cyclical unemployment? Show us your findings on social media with #PMSummerSchool.Sponsor MessageEcon songs of summer:Every week, we pick a few of our favorites and add them toour playlist. Recommend your favorite on social media. Make sure to use #PMSummerschool.At Planet Money Summer School, phones ARE allowed during class. Check out this week's PM Tik Tok!Music:I Need You,Pacific Thing,Psychistan Surf,Sleeper Agent,Inner Desert Blues&Take This Job & Shove It, Johnny PaycheckFind us:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokSubscribe to our show onApple Podcasts,Pocket CastsandNPR One.Want extra credit? Subscribe to Planet Money'sNewsletterFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Planet Money Summer School 5: Car Parts, Celery & The Labor MarketListen·32:4732:47TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1116825744/1198959952" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Planet Money Summer School 5: Car Parts, Celery & The Labor MarketListen·32:4732:47TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1116825744/1198959952" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1116825744/1198959952" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageJames Yang for NPRJames Yang for NPRThere's a lot in a job.What a person does for a living can say a lot about their interests, areas of expertise, and lifestyle. Similarly, the types of jobs being created or lost in the economy can tell us a lot about the direction we're all heading.Over the last hundred years or so, there has been a massive shift in our national economic identity in large part driven by the transition from an economy based on labor-intensive, working-class, manufacturing jobs that producegoodsto an economy more driven by theservicesector, where more and more jobs require specialized training or higher education.Sponsor MessageThis transition has upsides. Jobs tend to be less dangerous, many goods are getting cheaper, and many workers have access to comforts that a turn-of-the-century factory worker couldn't have imagined even in their wildest dreams.However, our shiny new skill-based economy also means dwindling job opportunities for workers without access to the education or training to allow them to compete for high paying roles with a lot of long-term job security.Today's lesson is a story from the frontlines of an economic transition. We travel to a factory, once the symbol of our strong manufacturing economy, where today, all of the forces influencing the transition are colliding at once and workers and business owners alike are being forced to adjust on the fly. We get inside the decision making process of when to replace a worker with a machine.Then we travel to a farm where even increased wages aren't enough to attract the workers needed. International pressure and cheaper food from abroad prevents higher wages. We'll look how immigration and trade policy affect wages and the supply of labor... and of celery.Concepts we cover:Cyclical UnemploymentStructural UnemploymentSkilled Workers and Low-Wage WorkersEfficiency WagesHomework:Look in the news for stories about hirings and layoffs. What kinds of jobs are being lost? What kind are being gained? Are the job losses a result of structural unemployment or cyclical unemployment? Show us your findings on social media with #PMSummerSchool.Sponsor MessageEcon songs of summer:Every week, we pick a few of our favorites and add them toour playlist. Recommend your favorite on social media. Make sure to use #PMSummerschool.At Planet Money Summer School, phones ARE allowed during class. Check out this week's PM Tik Tok!Music:I Need You,Pacific Thing,Psychistan Surf,Sleeper Agent,Inner Desert Blues&Take This Job & Shove It, Johnny PaycheckFind us:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokSubscribe to our show onApple Podcasts,Pocket CastsandNPR One.Want extra credit? Subscribe to Planet Money'sNewsletter What a person does for a living can say a lot about their interests, areas of expertise, and lifestyle. Similarly, the types of jobs being created or lost in the economy can tell us a lot about the direction we're all heading. Over the last hundred years or so, there has been a massive shift in our national economic identity in large part driven by the transition from an economy based on labor-intensive, working-class, manufacturing jobs that producegoodsto an economy more driven by theservicesector, where more and more jobs require specialized training or higher education. This transition has upsides. Jobs tend to be less dangerous, many goods are getting cheaper, and many workers have access to comforts that a turn-of-the-century factory worker couldn't have imagined even in their wildest dreams. However, our shiny new skill-based economy also means dwindling job opportunities for workers without access to the education or training to allow them to compete for high paying roles with a lot of long-term job security. Today's lesson is a story from the frontlines of an economic transition. We travel to a factory, once the symbol of our strong manufacturing economy, where today, all of the forces influencing the transition are colliding at once and workers and business owners alike are being forced to adjust on the fly. We get inside the decision making process of when to replace a worker with a machine. Then we travel to a farm where even increased wages aren't enough to attract the workers needed. International pressure and cheaper food from abroad prevents higher wages. We'll look how immigration and trade policy affect wages and the supply of labor... and of celery. Look in the news for stories about hirings and layoffs. What kinds of jobs are being lost? What kind are being gained? Are the job losses a result of structural unemployment or cyclical unemployment? Show us your findings on social media with #PMSummerSchool. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra