# [PODCAST] The last time we shrank the federal workforce

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/03/12/1237991516/planet-money-doge-government-size-rego
**Atlas ID**: 229452
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.839123

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop What DOGE is doing differently from the last time the U.S. shrank the government : Planet MoneyIf you cut every single federal job President Donald Trump wants to cut, how much money would that save?A president has tried to massively shrink the size of the federal government before. It was in the 90s, under a Democrat.Today on the show: Where they found waste the last time we really looked. (Hint: it wasn't jobs.) And why the pace of firings under Trump might start to slow down.For more:-Lessons for the Future of Government Reform-Is government too big? Reflections on the size and composition of today's federal government-Creating a Government That Works Better and Costs LessThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. We had fact-checking help from Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Special thanks to Ben Zipperer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Audio Network - "West Green Road," "Raise Up," and "Blue and Green." Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe last time we shrank the federal workforceMarch 12, 20256:40 PM ETBySarah Gonzalez,Amanda Aronczyk,Willa Rubin,Jess JiangThe last time we shrank the federal workforceListen·27:2027:20TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1237991516/1267814762" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageFILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide captiontoggle captionJ. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APFILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APIf you cut every single federal job President Donald Trump wants to cut, how much money would that save?A president has tried to massively shrink the size of the federal government before. It was in the 90s, under a Democrat.Today on the show: Where they found waste the last time we really looked. (Hint: it wasn't jobs.) And why the pace of firings under Trump might start to slow down.For more:-Lessons for the Future of Government Reform-Is government too big? Reflections on the size and composition of today's federal government-Creating a Government That Works Better and Costs LessThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. We had fact-checking help from Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Special thanks to Ben Zipperer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Audio Network - "West Green Road," "Raise Up," and "Blue and Green."Sponsor MessagePlanet MoneydogeFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The last time we shrank the federal workforceListen·27:2027:20TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1237991516/1267814762" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The last time we shrank the federal workforceListen·27:2027:20TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1237991516/1267814762" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1237991516/1267814762" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageFILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide captiontoggle captionJ. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APFILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APIf you cut every single federal job President Donald Trump wants to cut, how much money would that save?A president has tried to massively shrink the size of the federal government before. It was in the 90s, under a Democrat.Today on the show: Where they found waste the last time we really looked. (Hint: it wasn't jobs.) And why the pace of firings under Trump might start to slow down.For more:-Lessons for the Future of Government Reform-Is government too big? Reflections on the size and composition of today's federal government-Creating a Government That Works Better and Costs LessThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. We had fact-checking help from Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Special thanks to Ben Zipperer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Audio Network - "West Green Road," "Raise Up," and "Blue and Green."Sponsor Message Enlarge this imageFILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide captiontoggle captionJ. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APFILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/AP FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide captiontoggle captionJ. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/AP FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide captiontoggle caption FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide caption FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/APhide caption FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/AP FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington.J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/AP FILE - President Bill Clinton, left, and Vice President Al Gore walk past two forklifts carrying reams of federal rules and regulations prior to making their reinventing government announcement, Sept. 7, 1993, at the White House in Washington. If you cut every single federal job President Donald Trump wants to cut, how much money would that save?A president has tried to massively shrink the size of the federal government before. It was in the 90s, under a Democrat.Today on the show: Where they found waste the last time we really looked. (Hint: it wasn't jobs.) And why the pace of firings under Trump might start to slow down.For more:-Lessons for the Future of Government Reform-Is government too big? Reflections on the size and composition of today's federal government-Creating a Government That Works Better and Costs LessThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Jess Jiang and engineered by Jimmy Keeley. We had fact-checking help from Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Special thanks to Ben Zipperer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Audio Network - "West Green Road," "Raise Up," and "Blue and Green." Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra