# [PODCAST] Netflix Earnings, Netflix Maintenance, Netflix's Venture Model

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/netflix-earnings-netflix-maintenance-netflixs-venture-model/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.nq9NsBB5FKboJj3TniEaqUfIHpA0VPnvQT51eTEo0Sp1Qgwb2LzI_MeBV4mHSDMQ-F4scCs-oIzT0fhIsbLnScrnDNkyo5Kqd6pLQM5qNA12ecai67Ds_HJPM9pIlGoAIN4RwWrEfw9bTnjPdhYkT9aFwvJ1dNhqbBOvVjRyJxXYNy3wxjsHzvEmxGGK6IXoR4v0VbuTd99YEHwltw2L04GjQ1Cu60i1RRj0vmpo-RO71TJrOviW4tXwAaJ_J3-K-OkJx1kmFJq5JE5K_IowEflMMP4emtVbEj7CiZf0X3I4e9GZaiK5M3-QAv2aEV8voTRaseNYSXTkf_yrA9HHyg
**Atlas ID**: 229677
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.936506

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirNetflix Earnings, Netflix Maintenance, Netflix’s Venture ModelWednesday, October 23, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,One programming note: this week’s Stratechery Interview will run on Friday, not Thursday; that means you won’t hear from me tomorrow.Meanwhile, onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss Xi Jinping’s visit to the BRIC’s Summit, Taiwan’s energy security, and heightened scrutiny on TSMC.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high after the streaming company added more than 5 million customers in the third quarter and eclipsed Wall Street’s expectations on every major financial metric. Sales for the period grew 15% to $9.83 billion, the company said on Thursday, while earnings increased to $5.40 a share. Analysts were predicting Netflix would add 4.52 million subscribers. The shares surged 11% to $763.89 on Friday in New York, the biggest gain in a year. The stock has more than quadrupled since May 2022, when a slowdown in the company’s growth led to a major selloff and spooked investors about the entertainment business.Since then, Netflix has added more than 60 million customers, thanks to a crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscription with advertising. The company finished the quarter with 282.7 million subscribers…Most analysts believe the boost from the password crackdown is temporary, and that Netflix will soon need to find another way to grow. The company has yet to see material financial returns from its investment in advertising or video games, and some on Wall Street now worry the stock is overvalued.Netflix will soonstop reporting subscriber numbers, and wants Wall Street to look at more traditional company metrics like, you know, revenue and profits. For example, this was CFO Spencer Neumann’s answer to a question about a slight decline in LATAM subscribers onthe earnings call:Overall, the underlying business trends in LatAm are healthy. Q3 revenue, which is our primary kind of North Star for top line growth, was up 9% year-over-year. Year-to-date, it’s up 10% on a reported basis. That’s in line with our 2023 growth of 9%, and we’ve got much more significant currency headwinds in ’24 relative to ’23. So actually, growth at the local level is much accelerated in ’24 relative to a year ago.Co-CEO Ted Sarandos opened the earnings call by focusing on both revenue and profit:We’re feeling really good about the business. We had a plan to reaccelerate growth, and we delivered on that plan. You can see that in our 2024 financials. We expect to deliver 15% revenue growth and 6 percentage points of operating margin improvement and engagement, which we view as our best proxy for member happiness because when people watch more, they stick around longer. So that’s retention. They talk more about Netflix, which drives acquisition. And they place a higher value on their Netflix subscription.The margin growth is particularly notable. It is arriving just in time for the passing of the password crackdown subscriber growth wave and the change in reporting; it is also something that Netflix has been laying the groundwork for for many years now. First, here is the last decade of revenue, profits, and gross margin:This shows the increasing gross margin, but the thing to keep in mind is that the cost of revenue is a function of when shows stream and then the fact they are depreciated over time; to better see management’s decision-making it is useful to look at the same chart, but using the cash flow devoted to content instead (which shows actual money out the door that will manifest in the income statement over the following years):For many years Netflix’s investment in content growth tracked its revenue growth; as you can see on this chart, though, the key switchover happened around 2018, when Netflix’s content costs stabilized at around $4 billion per quarter. And, guess what happens when you keep costs steady but revenue continues to grow? You get expanding margins, and you start to looka bit more like a tech company.Netflix MaintenanceNetflix wrote intheir investor letter:Our members rely on Netflix to entertain them, and we want to be the first place they go for that entertainment. With an audience of 600M+ and growing, we’re programming for more tastes, cultures and languages than any company has ever done before. It’s why we invest in a wide variety of TV shows and films, and work so hard to make them great. Because when people love something, they’ll keep coming back (increased retention), talk more about Netflix (increased acquisition) and place a higher value on our service…Programming for such a large, engaged audience, with so much variety and great quality, is hard. It’s why streaming services which lack our breadth of content are increasingly looking to bundle their offerings (selling and discounting their services together, channel offerings, etc.). Netflix is already an extraordinary package of series and films (licensed and original), and increasingly games and live events — all in one place and for one price, easy to use and great value for money. At just under 10% of TV time today in our biggest countries, we believe there’s a huge opportunity to grow that share by investing even more in our slate and continuing to improve the variety and quality of our offering. Part of that improvement is ensuring we have a steady drumbeat of great, new TV shows, movies and games throughout the year to satisfy our members.What is notable about Netflix’s leveling-off in content spend is that we actually have an idea now about how much it costs to satisfy a worldwide userbase of 600M+ people: about $4 billion per quarter. That’s actually not that much, and a fair bit less than, say, Disney, even if you exclude sports rights (Disney does have more mediums to cover, including theatrical and linear television). The key advantage for Netflix comes from an Update I wroteback in 2020:People do not come to Netflix because of a show; they watch a show because it is on Netflix. That is why Netflix’s viewing numbers continued to increase in a quarter where Disney+ and Apple TV+ dominated the headlines, and it’s why Netflix is ok puttering along with its strategy of releasing entire seasons at once, instead of an episode a week.Netflix’s position as the default streaming service means it has much lower customer acquisition costs, much lower churn, and, critically, can make content choices that are focused on satisfying customers instead of attracting them; the former is a lot cheaper and sustainable over the long run. In other words, that $4 billion number isn’t necessarily the number required to build a Netflix-like service in a world where Netflix already exists; rather it is for Netflix, in its privileged position, the number required to maintain their position.This is actually something I think about a lot in my business. I had the good fortune of starting Stratechery at a time when there were far fewer people writing newsletters, and when links could spread far-and-wide on social media; that meant I could get a lot of leverage on free posts and also provide genuine value to subscribers via less in-depth Updates. Today it’s far harder to acquire new customers, even as the standards for providing subscriber value are much higher given the competition.To that end, it has been a natural transition for me over the last few years to spend more time (in terms of percentage of output) on writing deeper and more substantive Updates with a primary goal of keeping subscribers happy (in the early years of Stratechery, an Update likeyesterday’swould almost certainly be public); reducing churn is the key, with word-of-mouth recommendations being the primary way to acquire new subscribers. New entrants don’t have the same advantages; which means would-be competitors have to exceed my output on nearly every metric. Being first is nice!Netflix’s Venture ModelI mentioned that Netflix looks more like a tech company above; that link was to myanalysis of Spotify’s IPO, where I pointed out that the streaming music company’s challenge was that their content costs were indexed to their revenue, which gave them a fundamentally different model than Netflix. Sarandos talked about exactly that in response to a question about whether Netflix would start paying talent on the back-end instead of up-front:Look, we like our model and talent likes our model. It’s so much more impactful for our business if we can make our films, our shows just a little bit better, so much more impactful than making them a little bit cheaper. Bela said this very clearly a couple of weeks ago to all the talent agencies. We’re not changing our compensation structure.Paying upfront, something that Netflix actually pioneered, benefits creators and it benefits Netflix. So for creators, Netflix takes all the financial risks so that they can focus on making the best possible version of what they’re working on. And for Netflix, that model enables us to attract the best talent in the world. Now with all that said, we have been and we continue to be and we are open to more bespoke deals where talent is interested. Now they rarely happen because typically the talent chooses the upfront model. So we think that we have the right model, and we are not looking to change it.Sarandos didn’t quite give the whole answer: the reason Netflix likes the model is because it is this model that enables the tech-like margin expansion I highlighted above. If Netflix paid based on success, then its content costs would increase in line with its revenue; because Netflix pays a fixed price it gets to keep the additional revenue from more subscribers paying more to itself.There’s another reason for Netflix to favor this model as well: it’s a key part of their differentiation from YouTube, their true competitor in streaming. Sarandos said in response to a question about YouTube being friend or foe:When I look at YouTube specifically, I’d say look, we compete directly with YouTube for people’s time, for the time they spend on that TV screen. But we have very different strengths. And we continue to invest in ambitious premium content to grow our share of engagement. We think that Netflix is the best place for premium stories because we’re the home to the best storytellers. We have an enormous reach, 600 million watchers. We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content. Our subscription model generates higher returns for creators. Those higher returns let them make more ambitious investments in their next projects.“We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content” is the key line there; Netflix is in some respects like a venture capitalist for entertainment: they pay for the up-front costs and reap the benefits when something breaks out. It’s not a perfect analogy, in part because content isn’t a company — there is no going concern to maintain. At the same time, that is also why Netflix gets to keepallof the upside, not just a percentage of it.Peters added after Sarandos:I think that Netflix fulfills an important and different role for both consumers who want these great movies and TV shows, but also for creators who want partners that can share in the risk that’s inherent to bringing those stories to life. And if you think about some of the titles we’ll launch this quarter, you mentioned a couple: Squid Game, Outer Banks, Black Doves. You mentioned A Hundred Years of Solitude, Senna, both coming from Latin America, which are huge, ambitious projects. It’s hard to imagine how those kind of big creative bets would be possible with YouTube’s model. So while it’s certainly a competitive environment, that’s absolutely true, but we feel our focus and our model, which is the best storytellers, ambitious premium storytelling, those work well for consumers and for creators while also generating significant operating margin for the business, too.YouTube has much more theoretical upside for creators: a hit video can generate millions of dollars on its own. That payout, though, is much less certain; that means the smartest approach is contant production, both to increase the chances of a breakout and also to build up a presence in users’ algorithms that delivers a baseline amount of viewing. That can make for compelling content, to be sure, but Netflix is right that its not really suited for more highly produced high cost offerings.You can, if you squint, see the classic Internet barbell concept here: on one hand you have a large platform that, thanks to its large user base, can provide funding with a fixed upside to creators; on the other you have a large platform that, thanks to its astronomically large userbase, can provide huge variance in outcomes. One wonders how much room there is in the long run for something in the middle, i.e. the old Hollywood model, where creators could make ambitious projects with a lot of funding and still get a share of the upside. On one hand the companies stuck in the middle need these models, because they need to produce content at a somewhat lower cost; on the other hand, if they keep giving away upside they may never grow big enough to overcome the distribution advantages Netflix has by getting to scale first.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Apple Should Buy NetflixDateMonday, October 31, 2016Netflix’s New ChapterDateMonday, January 23, 2023←Stripe Acquires Bridge, Stablecoins, Platform of PlatformsAn Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff about AI Abundance→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Netflix Earnings, Netflix Maintenance, Netflix’s Venture ModelWednesday, October 23, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,One programming note: this week’s Stratechery Interview will run on Friday, not Thursday; that means you won’t hear from me tomorrow.Meanwhile, onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss Xi Jinping’s visit to the BRIC’s Summit, Taiwan’s energy security, and heightened scrutiny on TSMC.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high after the streaming company added more than 5 million customers in the third quarter and eclipsed Wall Street’s expectations on every major financial metric. Sales for the period grew 15% to $9.83 billion, the company said on Thursday, while earnings increased to $5.40 a share. Analysts were predicting Netflix would add 4.52 million subscribers. The shares surged 11% to $763.89 on Friday in New York, the biggest gain in a year. The stock has more than quadrupled since May 2022, when a slowdown in the company’s growth led to a major selloff and spooked investors about the entertainment business.Since then, Netflix has added more than 60 million customers, thanks to a crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscription with advertising. The company finished the quarter with 282.7 million subscribers…Most analysts believe the boost from the password crackdown is temporary, and that Netflix will soon need to find another way to grow. The company has yet to see material financial returns from its investment in advertising or video games, and some on Wall Street now worry the stock is overvalued.Netflix will soonstop reporting subscriber numbers, and wants Wall Street to look at more traditional company metrics like, you know, revenue and profits. For example, this was CFO Spencer Neumann’s answer to a question about a slight decline in LATAM subscribers onthe earnings call:Overall, the underlying business trends in LatAm are healthy. Q3 revenue, which is our primary kind of North Star for top line growth, was up 9% year-over-year. Year-to-date, it’s up 10% on a reported basis. That’s in line with our 2023 growth of 9%, and we’ve got much more significant currency headwinds in ’24 relative to ’23. So actually, growth at the local level is much accelerated in ’24 relative to a year ago.Co-CEO Ted Sarandos opened the earnings call by focusing on both revenue and profit:We’re feeling really good about the business. We had a plan to reaccelerate growth, and we delivered on that plan. You can see that in our 2024 financials. We expect to deliver 15% revenue growth and 6 percentage points of operating margin improvement and engagement, which we view as our best proxy for member happiness because when people watch more, they stick around longer. So that’s retention. They talk more about Netflix, which drives acquisition. And they place a higher value on their Netflix subscription.The margin growth is particularly notable. It is arriving just in time for the passing of the password crackdown subscriber growth wave and the change in reporting; it is also something that Netflix has been laying the groundwork for for many years now. First, here is the last decade of revenue, profits, and gross margin:This shows the increasing gross margin, but the thing to keep in mind is that the cost of revenue is a function of when shows stream and then the fact they are depreciated over time; to better see management’s decision-making it is useful to look at the same chart, but using the cash flow devoted to content instead (which shows actual money out the door that will manifest in the income statement over the following years):For many years Netflix’s investment in content growth tracked its revenue growth; as you can see on this chart, though, the key switchover happened around 2018, when Netflix’s content costs stabilized at around $4 billion per quarter. And, guess what happens when you keep costs steady but revenue continues to grow? You get expanding margins, and you start to looka bit more like a tech company.Netflix MaintenanceNetflix wrote intheir investor letter:Our members rely on Netflix to entertain them, and we want to be the first place they go for that entertainment. With an audience of 600M+ and growing, we’re programming for more tastes, cultures and languages than any company has ever done before. It’s why we invest in a wide variety of TV shows and films, and work so hard to make them great. Because when people love something, they’ll keep coming back (increased retention), talk more about Netflix (increased acquisition) and place a higher value on our service…Programming for such a large, engaged audience, with so much variety and great quality, is hard. It’s why streaming services which lack our breadth of content are increasingly looking to bundle their offerings (selling and discounting their services together, channel offerings, etc.). Netflix is already an extraordinary package of series and films (licensed and original), and increasingly games and live events — all in one place and for one price, easy to use and great value for money. At just under 10% of TV time today in our biggest countries, we believe there’s a huge opportunity to grow that share by investing even more in our slate and continuing to improve the variety and quality of our offering. Part of that improvement is ensuring we have a steady drumbeat of great, new TV shows, movies and games throughout the year to satisfy our members.What is notable about Netflix’s leveling-off in content spend is that we actually have an idea now about how much it costs to satisfy a worldwide userbase of 600M+ people: about $4 billion per quarter. That’s actually not that much, and a fair bit less than, say, Disney, even if you exclude sports rights (Disney does have more mediums to cover, including theatrical and linear television). The key advantage for Netflix comes from an Update I wroteback in 2020:People do not come to Netflix because of a show; they watch a show because it is on Netflix. That is why Netflix’s viewing numbers continued to increase in a quarter where Disney+ and Apple TV+ dominated the headlines, and it’s why Netflix is ok puttering along with its strategy of releasing entire seasons at once, instead of an episode a week.Netflix’s position as the default streaming service means it has much lower customer acquisition costs, much lower churn, and, critically, can make content choices that are focused on satisfying customers instead of attracting them; the former is a lot cheaper and sustainable over the long run. In other words, that $4 billion number isn’t necessarily the number required to build a Netflix-like service in a world where Netflix already exists; rather it is for Netflix, in its privileged position, the number required to maintain their position.This is actually something I think about a lot in my business. I had the good fortune of starting Stratechery at a time when there were far fewer people writing newsletters, and when links could spread far-and-wide on social media; that meant I could get a lot of leverage on free posts and also provide genuine value to subscribers via less in-depth Updates. Today it’s far harder to acquire new customers, even as the standards for providing subscriber value are much higher given the competition.To that end, it has been a natural transition for me over the last few years to spend more time (in terms of percentage of output) on writing deeper and more substantive Updates with a primary goal of keeping subscribers happy (in the early years of Stratechery, an Update likeyesterday’swould almost certainly be public); reducing churn is the key, with word-of-mouth recommendations being the primary way to acquire new subscribers. New entrants don’t have the same advantages; which means would-be competitors have to exceed my output on nearly every metric. Being first is nice!Netflix’s Venture ModelI mentioned that Netflix looks more like a tech company above; that link was to myanalysis of Spotify’s IPO, where I pointed out that the streaming music company’s challenge was that their content costs were indexed to their revenue, which gave them a fundamentally different model than Netflix. Sarandos talked about exactly that in response to a question about whether Netflix would start paying talent on the back-end instead of up-front:Look, we like our model and talent likes our model. It’s so much more impactful for our business if we can make our films, our shows just a little bit better, so much more impactful than making them a little bit cheaper. Bela said this very clearly a couple of weeks ago to all the talent agencies. We’re not changing our compensation structure.Paying upfront, something that Netflix actually pioneered, benefits creators and it benefits Netflix. So for creators, Netflix takes all the financial risks so that they can focus on making the best possible version of what they’re working on. And for Netflix, that model enables us to attract the best talent in the world. Now with all that said, we have been and we continue to be and we are open to more bespoke deals where talent is interested. Now they rarely happen because typically the talent chooses the upfront model. So we think that we have the right model, and we are not looking to change it.Sarandos didn’t quite give the whole answer: the reason Netflix likes the model is because it is this model that enables the tech-like margin expansion I highlighted above. If Netflix paid based on success, then its content costs would increase in line with its revenue; because Netflix pays a fixed price it gets to keep the additional revenue from more subscribers paying more to itself.There’s another reason for Netflix to favor this model as well: it’s a key part of their differentiation from YouTube, their true competitor in streaming. Sarandos said in response to a question about YouTube being friend or foe:When I look at YouTube specifically, I’d say look, we compete directly with YouTube for people’s time, for the time they spend on that TV screen. But we have very different strengths. And we continue to invest in ambitious premium content to grow our share of engagement. We think that Netflix is the best place for premium stories because we’re the home to the best storytellers. We have an enormous reach, 600 million watchers. We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content. Our subscription model generates higher returns for creators. Those higher returns let them make more ambitious investments in their next projects.“We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content” is the key line there; Netflix is in some respects like a venture capitalist for entertainment: they pay for the up-front costs and reap the benefits when something breaks out. It’s not a perfect analogy, in part because content isn’t a company — there is no going concern to maintain. At the same time, that is also why Netflix gets to keepallof the upside, not just a percentage of it.Peters added after Sarandos:I think that Netflix fulfills an important and different role for both consumers who want these great movies and TV shows, but also for creators who want partners that can share in the risk that’s inherent to bringing those stories to life. And if you think about some of the titles we’ll launch this quarter, you mentioned a couple: Squid Game, Outer Banks, Black Doves. You mentioned A Hundred Years of Solitude, Senna, both coming from Latin America, which are huge, ambitious projects. It’s hard to imagine how those kind of big creative bets would be possible with YouTube’s model. So while it’s certainly a competitive environment, that’s absolutely true, but we feel our focus and our model, which is the best storytellers, ambitious premium storytelling, those work well for consumers and for creators while also generating significant operating margin for the business, too.YouTube has much more theoretical upside for creators: a hit video can generate millions of dollars on its own. That payout, though, is much less certain; that means the smartest approach is contant production, both to increase the chances of a breakout and also to build up a presence in users’ algorithms that delivers a baseline amount of viewing. That can make for compelling content, to be sure, but Netflix is right that its not really suited for more highly produced high cost offerings.You can, if you squint, see the classic Internet barbell concept here: on one hand you have a large platform that, thanks to its large user base, can provide funding with a fixed upside to creators; on the other you have a large platform that, thanks to its astronomically large userbase, can provide huge variance in outcomes. One wonders how much room there is in the long run for something in the middle, i.e. the old Hollywood model, where creators could make ambitious projects with a lot of funding and still get a share of the upside. On one hand the companies stuck in the middle need these models, because they need to produce content at a somewhat lower cost; on the other hand, if they keep giving away upside they may never grow big enough to overcome the distribution advantages Netflix has by getting to scale first.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Apple Should Buy NetflixDateMonday, October 31, 2016Netflix’s New ChapterDateMonday, January 23, 2023←Stripe Acquires Bridge, Stablecoins, Platform of PlatformsAn Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff about AI Abundance→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Netflix Earnings, Netflix Maintenance, Netflix’s Venture ModelWednesday, October 23, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,One programming note: this week’s Stratechery Interview will run on Friday, not Thursday; that means you won’t hear from me tomorrow.Meanwhile, onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss Xi Jinping’s visit to the BRIC’s Summit, Taiwan’s energy security, and heightened scrutiny on TSMC.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high after the streaming company added more than 5 million customers in the third quarter and eclipsed Wall Street’s expectations on every major financial metric. Sales for the period grew 15% to $9.83 billion, the company said on Thursday, while earnings increased to $5.40 a share. Analysts were predicting Netflix would add 4.52 million subscribers. The shares surged 11% to $763.89 on Friday in New York, the biggest gain in a year. The stock has more than quadrupled since May 2022, when a slowdown in the company’s growth led to a major selloff and spooked investors about the entertainment business.Since then, Netflix has added more than 60 million customers, thanks to a crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscription with advertising. The company finished the quarter with 282.7 million subscribers…Most analysts believe the boost from the password crackdown is temporary, and that Netflix will soon need to find another way to grow. The company has yet to see material financial returns from its investment in advertising or video games, and some on Wall Street now worry the stock is overvalued.Netflix will soonstop reporting subscriber numbers, and wants Wall Street to look at more traditional company metrics like, you know, revenue and profits. For example, this was CFO Spencer Neumann’s answer to a question about a slight decline in LATAM subscribers onthe earnings call:Overall, the underlying business trends in LatAm are healthy. Q3 revenue, which is our primary kind of North Star for top line growth, was up 9% year-over-year. Year-to-date, it’s up 10% on a reported basis. That’s in line with our 2023 growth of 9%, and we’ve got much more significant currency headwinds in ’24 relative to ’23. So actually, growth at the local level is much accelerated in ’24 relative to a year ago.Co-CEO Ted Sarandos opened the earnings call by focusing on both revenue and profit:We’re feeling really good about the business. We had a plan to reaccelerate growth, and we delivered on that plan. You can see that in our 2024 financials. We expect to deliver 15% revenue growth and 6 percentage points of operating margin improvement and engagement, which we view as our best proxy for member happiness because when people watch more, they stick around longer. So that’s retention. They talk more about Netflix, which drives acquisition. And they place a higher value on their Netflix subscription.The margin growth is particularly notable. It is arriving just in time for the passing of the password crackdown subscriber growth wave and the change in reporting; it is also something that Netflix has been laying the groundwork for for many years now. First, here is the last decade of revenue, profits, and gross margin:This shows the increasing gross margin, but the thing to keep in mind is that the cost of revenue is a function of when shows stream and then the fact they are depreciated over time; to better see management’s decision-making it is useful to look at the same chart, but using the cash flow devoted to content instead (which shows actual money out the door that will manifest in the income statement over the following years):For many years Netflix’s investment in content growth tracked its revenue growth; as you can see on this chart, though, the key switchover happened around 2018, when Netflix’s content costs stabilized at around $4 billion per quarter. And, guess what happens when you keep costs steady but revenue continues to grow? You get expanding margins, and you start to looka bit more like a tech company.Netflix MaintenanceNetflix wrote intheir investor letter:Our members rely on Netflix to entertain them, and we want to be the first place they go for that entertainment. With an audience of 600M+ and growing, we’re programming for more tastes, cultures and languages than any company has ever done before. It’s why we invest in a wide variety of TV shows and films, and work so hard to make them great. Because when people love something, they’ll keep coming back (increased retention), talk more about Netflix (increased acquisition) and place a higher value on our service…Programming for such a large, engaged audience, with so much variety and great quality, is hard. It’s why streaming services which lack our breadth of content are increasingly looking to bundle their offerings (selling and discounting their services together, channel offerings, etc.). Netflix is already an extraordinary package of series and films (licensed and original), and increasingly games and live events — all in one place and for one price, easy to use and great value for money. At just under 10% of TV time today in our biggest countries, we believe there’s a huge opportunity to grow that share by investing even more in our slate and continuing to improve the variety and quality of our offering. Part of that improvement is ensuring we have a steady drumbeat of great, new TV shows, movies and games throughout the year to satisfy our members.What is notable about Netflix’s leveling-off in content spend is that we actually have an idea now about how much it costs to satisfy a worldwide userbase of 600M+ people: about $4 billion per quarter. That’s actually not that much, and a fair bit less than, say, Disney, even if you exclude sports rights (Disney does have more mediums to cover, including theatrical and linear television). The key advantage for Netflix comes from an Update I wroteback in 2020:People do not come to Netflix because of a show; they watch a show because it is on Netflix. That is why Netflix’s viewing numbers continued to increase in a quarter where Disney+ and Apple TV+ dominated the headlines, and it’s why Netflix is ok puttering along with its strategy of releasing entire seasons at once, instead of an episode a week.Netflix’s position as the default streaming service means it has much lower customer acquisition costs, much lower churn, and, critically, can make content choices that are focused on satisfying customers instead of attracting them; the former is a lot cheaper and sustainable over the long run. In other words, that $4 billion number isn’t necessarily the number required to build a Netflix-like service in a world where Netflix already exists; rather it is for Netflix, in its privileged position, the number required to maintain their position.This is actually something I think about a lot in my business. I had the good fortune of starting Stratechery at a time when there were far fewer people writing newsletters, and when links could spread far-and-wide on social media; that meant I could get a lot of leverage on free posts and also provide genuine value to subscribers via less in-depth Updates. Today it’s far harder to acquire new customers, even as the standards for providing subscriber value are much higher given the competition.To that end, it has been a natural transition for me over the last few years to spend more time (in terms of percentage of output) on writing deeper and more substantive Updates with a primary goal of keeping subscribers happy (in the early years of Stratechery, an Update likeyesterday’swould almost certainly be public); reducing churn is the key, with word-of-mouth recommendations being the primary way to acquire new subscribers. New entrants don’t have the same advantages; which means would-be competitors have to exceed my output on nearly every metric. Being first is nice!Netflix’s Venture ModelI mentioned that Netflix looks more like a tech company above; that link was to myanalysis of Spotify’s IPO, where I pointed out that the streaming music company’s challenge was that their content costs were indexed to their revenue, which gave them a fundamentally different model than Netflix. Sarandos talked about exactly that in response to a question about whether Netflix would start paying talent on the back-end instead of up-front:Look, we like our model and talent likes our model. It’s so much more impactful for our business if we can make our films, our shows just a little bit better, so much more impactful than making them a little bit cheaper. Bela said this very clearly a couple of weeks ago to all the talent agencies. We’re not changing our compensation structure.Paying upfront, something that Netflix actually pioneered, benefits creators and it benefits Netflix. So for creators, Netflix takes all the financial risks so that they can focus on making the best possible version of what they’re working on. And for Netflix, that model enables us to attract the best talent in the world. Now with all that said, we have been and we continue to be and we are open to more bespoke deals where talent is interested. Now they rarely happen because typically the talent chooses the upfront model. So we think that we have the right model, and we are not looking to change it.Sarandos didn’t quite give the whole answer: the reason Netflix likes the model is because it is this model that enables the tech-like margin expansion I highlighted above. If Netflix paid based on success, then its content costs would increase in line with its revenue; because Netflix pays a fixed price it gets to keep the additional revenue from more subscribers paying more to itself.There’s another reason for Netflix to favor this model as well: it’s a key part of their differentiation from YouTube, their true competitor in streaming. Sarandos said in response to a question about YouTube being friend or foe:When I look at YouTube specifically, I’d say look, we compete directly with YouTube for people’s time, for the time they spend on that TV screen. But we have very different strengths. And we continue to invest in ambitious premium content to grow our share of engagement. We think that Netflix is the best place for premium stories because we’re the home to the best storytellers. We have an enormous reach, 600 million watchers. We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content. Our subscription model generates higher returns for creators. Those higher returns let them make more ambitious investments in their next projects.“We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content” is the key line there; Netflix is in some respects like a venture capitalist for entertainment: they pay for the up-front costs and reap the benefits when something breaks out. It’s not a perfect analogy, in part because content isn’t a company — there is no going concern to maintain. At the same time, that is also why Netflix gets to keepallof the upside, not just a percentage of it.Peters added after Sarandos:I think that Netflix fulfills an important and different role for both consumers who want these great movies and TV shows, but also for creators who want partners that can share in the risk that’s inherent to bringing those stories to life. And if you think about some of the titles we’ll launch this quarter, you mentioned a couple: Squid Game, Outer Banks, Black Doves. You mentioned A Hundred Years of Solitude, Senna, both coming from Latin America, which are huge, ambitious projects. It’s hard to imagine how those kind of big creative bets would be possible with YouTube’s model. So while it’s certainly a competitive environment, that’s absolutely true, but we feel our focus and our model, which is the best storytellers, ambitious premium storytelling, those work well for consumers and for creators while also generating significant operating margin for the business, too.YouTube has much more theoretical upside for creators: a hit video can generate millions of dollars on its own. That payout, though, is much less certain; that means the smartest approach is contant production, both to increase the chances of a breakout and also to build up a presence in users’ algorithms that delivers a baseline amount of viewing. That can make for compelling content, to be sure, but Netflix is right that its not really suited for more highly produced high cost offerings.You can, if you squint, see the classic Internet barbell concept here: on one hand you have a large platform that, thanks to its large user base, can provide funding with a fixed upside to creators; on the other you have a large platform that, thanks to its astronomically large userbase, can provide huge variance in outcomes. One wonders how much room there is in the long run for something in the middle, i.e. the old Hollywood model, where creators could make ambitious projects with a lot of funding and still get a share of the upside. On one hand the companies stuck in the middle need these models, because they need to produce content at a somewhat lower cost; on the other hand, if they keep giving away upside they may never grow big enough to overcome the distribution advantages Netflix has by getting to scale first.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Apple Should Buy NetflixDateMonday, October 31, 2016Netflix’s New ChapterDateMonday, January 23, 2023←Stripe Acquires Bridge, Stablecoins, Platform of PlatformsAn Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff about AI Abundance→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,One programming note: this week’s Stratechery Interview will run on Friday, not Thursday; that means you won’t hear from me tomorrow.Meanwhile, onthis week’s episode of Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss Xi Jinping’s visit to the BRIC’s Summit, Taiwan’s energy security, and heightened scrutiny on TSMC.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high after the streaming company added more than 5 million customers in the third quarter and eclipsed Wall Street’s expectations on every major financial metric. Sales for the period grew 15% to $9.83 billion, the company said on Thursday, while earnings increased to $5.40 a share. Analysts were predicting Netflix would add 4.52 million subscribers. The shares surged 11% to $763.89 on Friday in New York, the biggest gain in a year. The stock has more than quadrupled since May 2022, when a slowdown in the company’s growth led to a major selloff and spooked investors about the entertainment business.Since then, Netflix has added more than 60 million customers, thanks to a crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscription with advertising. The company finished the quarter with 282.7 million subscribers…Most analysts believe the boost from the password crackdown is temporary, and that Netflix will soon need to find another way to grow. The company has yet to see material financial returns from its investment in advertising or video games, and some on Wall Street now worry the stock is overvalued.Netflix will soonstop reporting subscriber numbers, and wants Wall Street to look at more traditional company metrics like, you know, revenue and profits. For example, this was CFO Spencer Neumann’s answer to a question about a slight decline in LATAM subscribers onthe earnings call:Overall, the underlying business trends in LatAm are healthy. Q3 revenue, which is our primary kind of North Star for top line growth, was up 9% year-over-year. Year-to-date, it’s up 10% on a reported basis. That’s in line with our 2023 growth of 9%, and we’ve got much more significant currency headwinds in ’24 relative to ’23. So actually, growth at the local level is much accelerated in ’24 relative to a year ago.Co-CEO Ted Sarandos opened the earnings call by focusing on both revenue and profit:We’re feeling really good about the business. We had a plan to reaccelerate growth, and we delivered on that plan. You can see that in our 2024 financials. We expect to deliver 15% revenue growth and 6 percentage points of operating margin improvement and engagement, which we view as our best proxy for member happiness because when people watch more, they stick around longer. So that’s retention. They talk more about Netflix, which drives acquisition. And they place a higher value on their Netflix subscription.The margin growth is particularly notable. It is arriving just in time for the passing of the password crackdown subscriber growth wave and the change in reporting; it is also something that Netflix has been laying the groundwork for for many years now. First, here is the last decade of revenue, profits, and gross margin:This shows the increasing gross margin, but the thing to keep in mind is that the cost of revenue is a function of when shows stream and then the fact they are depreciated over time; to better see management’s decision-making it is useful to look at the same chart, but using the cash flow devoted to content instead (which shows actual money out the door that will manifest in the income statement over the following years):For many years Netflix’s investment in content growth tracked its revenue growth; as you can see on this chart, though, the key switchover happened around 2018, when Netflix’s content costs stabilized at around $4 billion per quarter. And, guess what happens when you keep costs steady but revenue continues to grow? You get expanding margins, and you start to looka bit more like a tech company.Netflix MaintenanceNetflix wrote intheir investor letter:Our members rely on Netflix to entertain them, and we want to be the first place they go for that entertainment. With an audience of 600M+ and growing, we’re programming for more tastes, cultures and languages than any company has ever done before. It’s why we invest in a wide variety of TV shows and films, and work so hard to make them great. Because when people love something, they’ll keep coming back (increased retention), talk more about Netflix (increased acquisition) and place a higher value on our service…Programming for such a large, engaged audience, with so much variety and great quality, is hard. It’s why streaming services which lack our breadth of content are increasingly looking to bundle their offerings (selling and discounting their services together, channel offerings, etc.). Netflix is already an extraordinary package of series and films (licensed and original), and increasingly games and live events — all in one place and for one price, easy to use and great value for money. At just under 10% of TV time today in our biggest countries, we believe there’s a huge opportunity to grow that share by investing even more in our slate and continuing to improve the variety and quality of our offering. Part of that improvement is ensuring we have a steady drumbeat of great, new TV shows, movies and games throughout the year to satisfy our members.What is notable about Netflix’s leveling-off in content spend is that we actually have an idea now about how much it costs to satisfy a worldwide userbase of 600M+ people: about $4 billion per quarter. That’s actually not that much, and a fair bit less than, say, Disney, even if you exclude sports rights (Disney does have more mediums to cover, including theatrical and linear television). The key advantage for Netflix comes from an Update I wroteback in 2020:People do not come to Netflix because of a show; they watch a show because it is on Netflix. That is why Netflix’s viewing numbers continued to increase in a quarter where Disney+ and Apple TV+ dominated the headlines, and it’s why Netflix is ok puttering along with its strategy of releasing entire seasons at once, instead of an episode a week.Netflix’s position as the default streaming service means it has much lower customer acquisition costs, much lower churn, and, critically, can make content choices that are focused on satisfying customers instead of attracting them; the former is a lot cheaper and sustainable over the long run. In other words, that $4 billion number isn’t necessarily the number required to build a Netflix-like service in a world where Netflix already exists; rather it is for Netflix, in its privileged position, the number required to maintain their position.This is actually something I think about a lot in my business. I had the good fortune of starting Stratechery at a time when there were far fewer people writing newsletters, and when links could spread far-and-wide on social media; that meant I could get a lot of leverage on free posts and also provide genuine value to subscribers via less in-depth Updates. Today it’s far harder to acquire new customers, even as the standards for providing subscriber value are much higher given the competition.To that end, it has been a natural transition for me over the last few years to spend more time (in terms of percentage of output) on writing deeper and more substantive Updates with a primary goal of keeping subscribers happy (in the early years of Stratechery, an Update likeyesterday’swould almost certainly be public); reducing churn is the key, with word-of-mouth recommendations being the primary way to acquire new subscribers. New entrants don’t have the same advantages; which means would-be competitors have to exceed my output on nearly every metric. Being first is nice!Netflix’s Venture ModelI mentioned that Netflix looks more like a tech company above; that link was to myanalysis of Spotify’s IPO, where I pointed out that the streaming music company’s challenge was that their content costs were indexed to their revenue, which gave them a fundamentally different model than Netflix. Sarandos talked about exactly that in response to a question about whether Netflix would start paying talent on the back-end instead of up-front:Look, we like our model and talent likes our model. It’s so much more impactful for our business if we can make our films, our shows just a little bit better, so much more impactful than making them a little bit cheaper. Bela said this very clearly a couple of weeks ago to all the talent agencies. We’re not changing our compensation structure.Paying upfront, something that Netflix actually pioneered, benefits creators and it benefits Netflix. So for creators, Netflix takes all the financial risks so that they can focus on making the best possible version of what they’re working on. And for Netflix, that model enables us to attract the best talent in the world. Now with all that said, we have been and we continue to be and we are open to more bespoke deals where talent is interested. Now they rarely happen because typically the talent chooses the upfront model. So we think that we have the right model, and we are not looking to change it.Sarandos didn’t quite give the whole answer: the reason Netflix likes the model is because it is this model that enables the tech-like margin expansion I highlighted above. If Netflix paid based on success, then its content costs would increase in line with its revenue; because Netflix pays a fixed price it gets to keep the additional revenue from more subscribers paying more to itself.There’s another reason for Netflix to favor this model as well: it’s a key part of their differentiation from YouTube, their true competitor in streaming. Sarandos said in response to a question about YouTube being friend or foe:When I look at YouTube specifically, I’d say look, we compete directly with YouTube for people’s time, for the time they spend on that TV screen. But we have very different strengths. And we continue to invest in ambitious premium content to grow our share of engagement. We think that Netflix is the best place for premium stories because we’re the home to the best storytellers. We have an enormous reach, 600 million watchers. We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content. Our subscription model generates higher returns for creators. Those higher returns let them make more ambitious investments in their next projects.“We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content” is the key line there; Netflix is in some respects like a venture capitalist for entertainment: they pay for the up-front costs and reap the benefits when something breaks out. It’s not a perfect analogy, in part because content isn’t a company — there is no going concern to maintain. At the same time, that is also why Netflix gets to keepallof the upside, not just a percentage of it.Peters added after Sarandos:I think that Netflix fulfills an important and different role for both consumers who want these great movies and TV shows, but also for creators who want partners that can share in the risk that’s inherent to bringing those stories to life. And if you think about some of the titles we’ll launch this quarter, you mentioned a couple: Squid Game, Outer Banks, Black Doves. You mentioned A Hundred Years of Solitude, Senna, both coming from Latin America, which are huge, ambitious projects. It’s hard to imagine how those kind of big creative bets would be possible with YouTube’s model. So while it’s certainly a competitive environment, that’s absolutely true, but we feel our focus and our model, which is the best storytellers, ambitious premium storytelling, those work well for consumers and for creators while also generating significant operating margin for the business, too.YouTube has much more theoretical upside for creators: a hit video can generate millions of dollars on its own. That payout, though, is much less certain; that means the smartest approach is contant production, both to increase the chances of a breakout and also to build up a presence in users’ algorithms that delivers a baseline amount of viewing. That can make for compelling content, to be sure, but Netflix is right that its not really suited for more highly produced high cost offerings.You can, if you squint, see the classic Internet barbell concept here: on one hand you have a large platform that, thanks to its large user base, can provide funding with a fixed upside to creators; on the other you have a large platform that, thanks to its astronomically large userbase, can provide huge variance in outcomes. One wonders how much room there is in the long run for something in the middle, i.e. the old Hollywood model, where creators could make ambitious projects with a lot of funding and still get a share of the upside. On one hand the companies stuck in the middle need these models, because they need to produce content at a somewhat lower cost; on the other hand, if they keep giving away upside they may never grow big enough to overcome the distribution advantages Netflix has by getting to scale first.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Netflix Inc. shares soared to a record high after the streaming company added more than 5 million customers in the third quarter and eclipsed Wall Street’s expectations on every major financial metric. Sales for the period grew 15% to $9.83 billion, the company said on Thursday, while earnings increased to $5.40 a share. Analysts were predicting Netflix would add 4.52 million subscribers. The shares surged 11% to $763.89 on Friday in New York, the biggest gain in a year. The stock has more than quadrupled since May 2022, when a slowdown in the company’s growth led to a major selloff and spooked investors about the entertainment business. Since then, Netflix has added more than 60 million customers, thanks to a crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscription with advertising. The company finished the quarter with 282.7 million subscribers…Most analysts believe the boost from the password crackdown is temporary, and that Netflix will soon need to find another way to grow. The company has yet to see material financial returns from its investment in advertising or video games, and some on Wall Street now worry the stock is overvalued. Netflix will soonstop reporting subscriber numbers, and wants Wall Street to look at more traditional company metrics like, you know, revenue and profits. For example, this was CFO Spencer Neumann’s answer to a question about a slight decline in LATAM subscribers onthe earnings call: Overall, the underlying business trends in LatAm are healthy. Q3 revenue, which is our primary kind of North Star for top line growth, was up 9% year-over-year. Year-to-date, it’s up 10% on a reported basis. That’s in line with our 2023 growth of 9%, and we’ve got much more significant currency headwinds in ’24 relative to ’23. So actually, growth at the local level is much accelerated in ’24 relative to a year ago. We’re feeling really good about the business. We had a plan to reaccelerate growth, and we delivered on that plan. You can see that in our 2024 financials. We expect to deliver 15% revenue growth and 6 percentage points of operating margin improvement and engagement, which we view as our best proxy for member happiness because when people watch more, they stick around longer. So that’s retention. They talk more about Netflix, which drives acquisition. And they place a higher value on their Netflix subscription. The margin growth is particularly notable. It is arriving just in time for the passing of the password crackdown subscriber growth wave and the change in reporting; it is also something that Netflix has been laying the groundwork for for many years now. First, here is the last decade of revenue, profits, and gross margin: This shows the increasing gross margin, but the thing to keep in mind is that the cost of revenue is a function of when shows stream and then the fact they are depreciated over time; to better see management’s decision-making it is useful to look at the same chart, but using the cash flow devoted to content instead (which shows actual money out the door that will manifest in the income statement over the following years): For many years Netflix’s investment in content growth tracked its revenue growth; as you can see on this chart, though, the key switchover happened around 2018, when Netflix’s content costs stabilized at around $4 billion per quarter. And, guess what happens when you keep costs steady but revenue continues to grow? You get expanding margins, and you start to looka bit more like a tech company. Our members rely on Netflix to entertain them, and we want to be the first place they go for that entertainment. With an audience of 600M+ and growing, we’re programming for more tastes, cultures and languages than any company has ever done before. It’s why we invest in a wide variety of TV shows and films, and work so hard to make them great. Because when people love something, they’ll keep coming back (increased retention), talk more about Netflix (increased acquisition) and place a higher value on our service… Programming for such a large, engaged audience, with so much variety and great quality, is hard. It’s why streaming services which lack our breadth of content are increasingly looking to bundle their offerings (selling and discounting their services together, channel offerings, etc.). Netflix is already an extraordinary package of series and films (licensed and original), and increasingly games and live events — all in one place and for one price, easy to use and great value for money. At just under 10% of TV time today in our biggest countries, we believe there’s a huge opportunity to grow that share by investing even more in our slate and continuing to improve the variety and quality of our offering. Part of that improvement is ensuring we have a steady drumbeat of great, new TV shows, movies and games throughout the year to satisfy our members. What is notable about Netflix’s leveling-off in content spend is that we actually have an idea now about how much it costs to satisfy a worldwide userbase of 600M+ people: about $4 billion per quarter. That’s actually not that much, and a fair bit less than, say, Disney, even if you exclude sports rights (Disney does have more mediums to cover, including theatrical and linear television). The key advantage for Netflix comes from an Update I wroteback in 2020: People do not come to Netflix because of a show; they watch a show because it is on Netflix. That is why Netflix’s viewing numbers continued to increase in a quarter where Disney+ and Apple TV+ dominated the headlines, and it’s why Netflix is ok puttering along with its strategy of releasing entire seasons at once, instead of an episode a week. Netflix’s position as the default streaming service means it has much lower customer acquisition costs, much lower churn, and, critically, can make content choices that are focused on satisfying customers instead of attracting them; the former is a lot cheaper and sustainable over the long run. In other words, that $4 billion number isn’t necessarily the number required to build a Netflix-like service in a world where Netflix already exists; rather it is for Netflix, in its privileged position, the number required to maintain their position. This is actually something I think about a lot in my business. I had the good fortune of starting Stratechery at a time when there were far fewer people writing newsletters, and when links could spread far-and-wide on social media; that meant I could get a lot of leverage on free posts and also provide genuine value to subscribers via less in-depth Updates. Today it’s far harder to acquire new customers, even as the standards for providing subscriber value are much higher given the competition. To that end, it has been a natural transition for me over the last few years to spend more time (in terms of percentage of output) on writing deeper and more substantive Updates with a primary goal of keeping subscribers happy (in the early years of Stratechery, an Update likeyesterday’swould almost certainly be public); reducing churn is the key, with word-of-mouth recommendations being the primary way to acquire new subscribers. New entrants don’t have the same advantages; which means would-be competitors have to exceed my output on nearly every metric. Being first is nice! I mentioned that Netflix looks more like a tech company above; that link was to myanalysis of Spotify’s IPO, where I pointed out that the streaming music company’s challenge was that their content costs were indexed to their revenue, which gave them a fundamentally different model than Netflix. Sarandos talked about exactly that in response to a question about whether Netflix would start paying talent on the back-end instead of up-front: Look, we like our model and talent likes our model. It’s so much more impactful for our business if we can make our films, our shows just a little bit better, so much more impactful than making them a little bit cheaper. Bela said this very clearly a couple of weeks ago to all the talent agencies. We’re not changing our compensation structure. Paying upfront, something that Netflix actually pioneered, benefits creators and it benefits Netflix. So for creators, Netflix takes all the financial risks so that they can focus on making the best possible version of what they’re working on. And for Netflix, that model enables us to attract the best talent in the world. Now with all that said, we have been and we continue to be and we are open to more bespoke deals where talent is interested. Now they rarely happen because typically the talent chooses the upfront model. So we think that we have the right model, and we are not looking to change it. Sarandos didn’t quite give the whole answer: the reason Netflix likes the model is because it is this model that enables the tech-like margin expansion I highlighted above. If Netflix paid based on success, then its content costs would increase in line with its revenue; because Netflix pays a fixed price it gets to keep the additional revenue from more subscribers paying more to itself. There’s another reason for Netflix to favor this model as well: it’s a key part of their differentiation from YouTube, their true competitor in streaming. Sarandos said in response to a question about YouTube being friend or foe: When I look at YouTube specifically, I’d say look, we compete directly with YouTube for people’s time, for the time they spend on that TV screen. But we have very different strengths. And we continue to invest in ambitious premium content to grow our share of engagement. We think that Netflix is the best place for premium stories because we’re the home to the best storytellers. We have an enormous reach, 600 million watchers. We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content. Our subscription model generates higher returns for creators. Those higher returns let them make more ambitious investments in their next projects. “We assume the financial risk when you’re making your content” is the key line there; Netflix is in some respects like a venture capitalist for entertainment: they pay for the up-front costs and reap the benefits when something breaks out. It’s not a perfect analogy, in part because content isn’t a company — there is no going concern to maintain. At the same time, that is also why Netflix gets to keepallof the upside, not just a percentage of it. I think that Netflix fulfills an important and different role for both consumers who want these great movies and TV shows, but also for creators who want partners that can share in the risk that’s inherent to bringing those stories to life. And if you think about some of the titles we’ll launch this quarter, you mentioned a couple: Squid Game, Outer Banks, Black Doves. You mentioned A Hundred Years of Solitude, Senna, both coming from Latin America, which are huge, ambitious projects. It’s hard to imagine how those kind of big creative bets would be possible with YouTube’s model. So while it’s certainly a competitive environment, that’s absolutely true, but we feel our focus and our model, which is the best storytellers, ambitious premium storytelling, those work well for consumers and for creators while also generating significant operating margin for the business, too. YouTube has much more theoretical upside for creators: a hit video can generate millions of dollars on its own. That payout, though, is much less certain; that means the smartest approach is contant production, both to increase the chances of a breakout and also to build up a presence in users’ algorithms that delivers a baseline amount of viewing. That can make for compelling content, to be sure, but Netflix is right that its not really suited for more highly produced high cost offerings. You can, if you squint, see the classic Internet barbell concept here: on one hand you have a large platform that, thanks to its large user base, can provide funding with a fixed upside to creators; on the other you have a large platform that, thanks to its astronomically large userbase, can provide huge variance in outcomes. One wonders how much room there is in the long run for something in the middle, i.e. the old Hollywood model, where creators could make ambitious projects with a lot of funding and still get a share of the upside. On one hand the companies stuck in the middle need these models, because they need to produce content at a somewhat lower cost; on the other hand, if they keep giving away upside they may never grow big enough to overcome the distribution advantages Netflix has by getting to scale first. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025