# [PODCAST] The battle over Osage headrights

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/03/23/1165619070/osage-headrights-killers-of-the-flower-moon-fletcher-lawsuit
**Atlas ID**: 229506
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.848778

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Osage headrights & the story behind 'Killers of the Flower Moon' : Planet MoneyRichard J. Lonsinger is a member of the Ponca tribe of Oklahoma, who was adopted at a young age into a white family of three. He eventually reconnected with his birth family, but when his birth mother passed away in 2010, he wasn't included in the distribution of her estate. Feeling both hurt and excluded, he asked a judge to re-open her estate, to give him a part of one particular asset: an Osage headright.An Osage headright is a share of profits from resources like oil, gas, and coal that have been extracted from the Osage Nation's land. These payments can be sizeable - thousands or even tens of thousands of dollars a year. Historically, they were even larger – in the 1920s the Osage were some of the wealthiest people in the world. But that wealth also made them a target and subject to paternalistic and predatory laws. Over the previous century, hundreds of millions of dollars in oil money have been taken from the Osage people.On today's show: the story of how Richard Lonsinger gradually came to learn this history, and how he made his peace with his part of a complicated inheritance.This episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Alyssa Jeong Perry and Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Brian Jarboe and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was edited by Keith Romer, with help from Shannon Shaw Duty from Osage News.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkBlood, oil, and the Osage Nation: The battle over headrightsMarch 24, 202310:01 PM ETBySam Yellowhorse Kesler,Amanda Aronczyk,Keith Romer,Willa RubinBlood, oil, and the Osage Nation: The battle over headrightsListen·23:4423:44TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1165619070/1198959549" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageRichard Lonsinger at his home in Lawrence, Kansas, holding a photo of himself as a child shortly after he was adopted.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRRichard Lonsinger at his home in Lawrence, Kansas, holding a photo of himself as a child shortly after he was adopted.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRWhen Richard J. Lonsinger was just a toddler, he was abandoned by his mother at a bus stop in Texas, along with three of his siblings. A member of the Ponca tribe of Oklahoma, Lonsinger went first to foster care, and then was adopted by a white family. It wasn't until he reached his twenties that he really started to think a lot about where he had come from."At 21, 22, I felt pretty alone," he says. "I was trying to figure out, you know, what am I supposed to be? Who am I supposed to be?"Sponsor MessageTo try to answer these questions, Lonsinger called the offices of the Ponca tribe, where he was put in touch with his birth family, including his birth mother and the rest of his siblings. He eventually made contact and tentatively began to form relationships with them. But when his birth mother passed away in 2010, Lonsinger was neither invited to her funeral nor included in the distribution of her estate.After a lifetime of feeling left out of his family, he decided to take action. He asked the probate court to reopen her estate and to distribute her assets equally among all of her eight children. One of her most valuable assets was something called an Osage headright."I started asking friends, business associates and friends in Oklahoma about, 'What does it mean to have an Osage headright?'" he recalls. "And they're like, 'Well, Ric, look, that's a big deal.'"In 2014, the probate judge ruled in favor of Richard and his siblings who had been abandoned with him decades before. They would all receive equal shares of their birth mother's headright, an inheritance it would take Lonsinger the better part of a decade to fully understand.Enlarge this imageOil derricks like these are scattered across the land in the Osage Nation.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPROil derricks like these are scattered across the land in the Osage Nation.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThe Osage Reign of TerrorThe history behind the headright system begins in the late 1800s, when the Osage were driven off their reservation in Kansas. They ultimately settled in Northern Oklahoma, purchasing new land with the blessing of the federal government.Sponsor MessageThen, in 1887, the Dawes Act was enacted in order to break up Indian land into parcels and allot those smaller pieces to individuals. Because the Osage had bought their land outright, though, they were better situated to resist the changes than many other tribes.When the U.S. government finally passed a statute in 1906 to allot Osage land, it included two important provisions. First, land would only be distributed to members of the Osage tribe. Second, no matter who owned that land, the rights for mineral resources like coal, gas and oil would still be owned collectively by the tribe. The rights to the oil, in particular, would turn out to be incredibly valuable.BooksLargely Forgotten Osage Murders Reveal A Conspiracy Against Wealthy Native AmericansTo divvy up the profits from the collectively owned mineral rights, a new system was put in place. Each of the 2,229 Osage members on the tribal rolls in 1907 was given an equal share of the money coming in, what would come to be called a "headright." Private companies would lease land from the tribe in order to extract oil, gas, gravel, or coal, and then pay a percentage of what they made into a trust managed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The BIA, in turn, would distribute payments from that trust to headright holders.Once the oil was really flowing, the Osage Nation became the wealthiest community in the world, per capita. People received payments worth hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in inflation-adjusted terms. They bought fancy clothes, big houses, and nice cars. News spread quickly, though, about all these suddenly wealthy people and attracted a raft of swindlers and conmen to Oklahoma.Loading...Ostensibly to help the Osage retain their wealth, the U.S. government put in place a system of guardianship, by which non-Osage were assigned to watch over members of the Osage tribe who were deemed "incompetent" to manage their money. In practice, guardianship was often an overtly racist system.Enlarge this imageHistorian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRHistorian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR"If you were considered a full-blood, American Indian, you were automatically deemed incompetent," says Tara Damron, Program Director with the White Hair Memorial Center in Hominy, Oklahoma, "so let's assign you a white guardian who's supposed to handle your financial affairs."Guardians would often pay themselves out of the money they were supposed to be protecting and then give their Osage wards a pittance in allowance. There were many instances of white people marrying people in the Osage tribe, sometimes by force, becoming their guardians, and then killing them for their headrights. (The bestselling book "Killers of the Flower Moon" by David Grann focuses on this time, known as the Osage Reign of Terror. A film adaptation of the book, directed by Martin Scorsese, is slated to be released this summer.) Throughout the 1920s many headrights left the tribe.Sponsor MessageSince that time there have been many amendments made to the original agreements between headright holders and the government intended to make the system less prone to abuse, but the way the money is distributed to headright holders by the federal government remains under dispute even today.Richard and the modern day fight over headrightsNot long after Richard Lonsinger began receiving his first quarterly checks from the BIA, he began to educate himself about the history of the headright system. "I dove into really what it is and what it means," he says.In addition to the complex and violent history, Lonsinger also began to learn about the present-day legal battles over the control and management of the trust. One series of lawsuits, grouped under the name Fletcher v. The United States, alleges financial mismanagement and a lack of transparency on the part of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Another, brought by the Osage tribe itself, resulted in a settlement of 380 million dollars for headright holders in 2011.One big sticking point is the issue of non-Osage headright holders. According to reporting fromBloomberg News, a quarter of all headright payments go to non-Osages. Businesses, schools, churches, and individuals not affiliated with the Osage Nation, have all somehow become headright holders.Code SwitchIndian Boarding Schools' Traumatic Legacy, And The Fight To Get Native Ancestors BackLonsinger likens the government's unwillingness to offer a fuller accounting of how headright holders' money is flowing to a relic from the past. "It's like reading a piece of history of what it used to be in the 1800s towards Native American," he says.In 2018, Lonsinger was recruited to join a new iteration of the Fletcher v. The United States lawsuits as a plaintiff in a class action. The lead lawyer on the case, Jason Aamodt, believed that adding Lonsinger, a Native American non-Osage headright holder, would strengthen the case. For Lonsinger, helping to fight for what he sees as Indigenous rights in the courts has been deeply meaningful on a personal level.Sponsor Message"I'm so proud that I have an opportunity to be a part of this case. It means something, you know?" says Lonsinger. "Here I felt like I wasn't part of something, but I'm part of something that's much bigger."In the decade since Richard first tried to get his share of his birth mother's headright, he has had a lot of time to think about its significance, and who he thinks should own it. A few years ago, he made a decision about what should happen to his headright after he dies. In his estate planning he made it clear that he wants his headright to be left to the Osage Nation."I mean, half my life was without it," he says. "So, you know, what's it mean when I'm gone? They deserve it more."This episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Alyssa Jeong Perry and Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Brian Jarboe and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was edited by Keith Romer, with help from Shannon Shaw Duty fromOsage News.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Heat," "Stop the Missiles," and "My City Life."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Blood, oil, and the Osage Nation: The battle over headrightsListen·23:4423:44TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1165619070/1198959549" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Blood, oil, and the Osage Nation: The battle over headrightsListen·23:4423:44TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1165619070/1198959549" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1165619070/1198959549" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageRichard Lonsinger at his home in Lawrence, Kansas, holding a photo of himself as a child shortly after he was adopted.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRRichard Lonsinger at his home in Lawrence, Kansas, holding a photo of himself as a child shortly after he was adopted.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRWhen Richard J. Lonsinger was just a toddler, he was abandoned by his mother at a bus stop in Texas, along with three of his siblings. A member of the Ponca tribe of Oklahoma, Lonsinger went first to foster care, and then was adopted by a white family. It wasn't until he reached his twenties that he really started to think a lot about where he had come from."At 21, 22, I felt pretty alone," he says. "I was trying to figure out, you know, what am I supposed to be? Who am I supposed to be?"Sponsor MessageTo try to answer these questions, Lonsinger called the offices of the Ponca tribe, where he was put in touch with his birth family, including his birth mother and the rest of his siblings. He eventually made contact and tentatively began to form relationships with them. But when his birth mother passed away in 2010, Lonsinger was neither invited to her funeral nor included in the distribution of her estate.After a lifetime of feeling left out of his family, he decided to take action. He asked the probate court to reopen her estate and to distribute her assets equally among all of her eight children. One of her most valuable assets was something called an Osage headright."I started asking friends, business associates and friends in Oklahoma about, 'What does it mean to have an Osage headright?'" he recalls. "And they're like, 'Well, Ric, look, that's a big deal.'"In 2014, the probate judge ruled in favor of Richard and his siblings who had been abandoned with him decades before. They would all receive equal shares of their birth mother's headright, an inheritance it would take Lonsinger the better part of a decade to fully understand.Enlarge this imageOil derricks like these are scattered across the land in the Osage Nation.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPROil derricks like these are scattered across the land in the Osage Nation.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThe Osage Reign of TerrorThe history behind the headright system begins in the late 1800s, when the Osage were driven off their reservation in Kansas. They ultimately settled in Northern Oklahoma, purchasing new land with the blessing of the federal government.Sponsor MessageThen, in 1887, the Dawes Act was enacted in order to break up Indian land into parcels and allot those smaller pieces to individuals. Because the Osage had bought their land outright, though, they were better situated to resist the changes than many other tribes.When the U.S. government finally passed a statute in 1906 to allot Osage land, it included two important provisions. First, land would only be distributed to members of the Osage tribe. Second, no matter who owned that land, the rights for mineral resources like coal, gas and oil would still be owned collectively by the tribe. The rights to the oil, in particular, would turn out to be incredibly valuable.BooksLargely Forgotten Osage Murders Reveal A Conspiracy Against Wealthy Native AmericansTo divvy up the profits from the collectively owned mineral rights, a new system was put in place. Each of the 2,229 Osage members on the tribal rolls in 1907 was given an equal share of the money coming in, what would come to be called a "headright." Private companies would lease land from the tribe in order to extract oil, gas, gravel, or coal, and then pay a percentage of what they made into a trust managed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The BIA, in turn, would distribute payments from that trust to headright holders.Once the oil was really flowing, the Osage Nation became the wealthiest community in the world, per capita. People received payments worth hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in inflation-adjusted terms. They bought fancy clothes, big houses, and nice cars. News spread quickly, though, about all these suddenly wealthy people and attracted a raft of swindlers and conmen to Oklahoma.Loading...Ostensibly to help the Osage retain their wealth, the U.S. government put in place a system of guardianship, by which non-Osage were assigned to watch over members of the Osage tribe who were deemed "incompetent" to manage their money. In practice, guardianship was often an overtly racist system.Enlarge this imageHistorian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRHistorian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR"If you were considered a full-blood, American Indian, you were automatically deemed incompetent," says Tara Damron, Program Director with the White Hair Memorial Center in Hominy, Oklahoma, "so let's assign you a white guardian who's supposed to handle your financial affairs."Guardians would often pay themselves out of the money they were supposed to be protecting and then give their Osage wards a pittance in allowance. There were many instances of white people marrying people in the Osage tribe, sometimes by force, becoming their guardians, and then killing them for their headrights. (The bestselling book "Killers of the Flower Moon" by David Grann focuses on this time, known as the Osage Reign of Terror. A film adaptation of the book, directed by Martin Scorsese, is slated to be released this summer.) Throughout the 1920s many headrights left the tribe.Sponsor MessageSince that time there have been many amendments made to the original agreements between headright holders and the government intended to make the system less prone to abuse, but the way the money is distributed to headright holders by the federal government remains under dispute even today.Richard and the modern day fight over headrightsNot long after Richard Lonsinger began receiving his first quarterly checks from the BIA, he began to educate himself about the history of the headright system. "I dove into really what it is and what it means," he says.In addition to the complex and violent history, Lonsinger also began to learn about the present-day legal battles over the control and management of the trust. One series of lawsuits, grouped under the name Fletcher v. The United States, alleges financial mismanagement and a lack of transparency on the part of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Another, brought by the Osage tribe itself, resulted in a settlement of 380 million dollars for headright holders in 2011.One big sticking point is the issue of non-Osage headright holders. According to reporting fromBloomberg News, a quarter of all headright payments go to non-Osages. Businesses, schools, churches, and individuals not affiliated with the Osage Nation, have all somehow become headright holders.Code SwitchIndian Boarding Schools' Traumatic Legacy, And The Fight To Get Native Ancestors BackLonsinger likens the government's unwillingness to offer a fuller accounting of how headright holders' money is flowing to a relic from the past. "It's like reading a piece of history of what it used to be in the 1800s towards Native American," he says.In 2018, Lonsinger was recruited to join a new iteration of the Fletcher v. The United States lawsuits as a plaintiff in a class action. The lead lawyer on the case, Jason Aamodt, believed that adding Lonsinger, a Native American non-Osage headright holder, would strengthen the case. For Lonsinger, helping to fight for what he sees as Indigenous rights in the courts has been deeply meaningful on a personal level.Sponsor Message"I'm so proud that I have an opportunity to be a part of this case. It means something, you know?" says Lonsinger. "Here I felt like I wasn't part of something, but I'm part of something that's much bigger."In the decade since Richard first tried to get his share of his birth mother's headright, he has had a lot of time to think about its significance, and who he thinks should own it. A few years ago, he made a decision about what should happen to his headright after he dies. In his estate planning he made it clear that he wants his headright to be left to the Osage Nation."I mean, half my life was without it," he says. "So, you know, what's it mean when I'm gone? They deserve it more."This episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Alyssa Jeong Perry and Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Brian Jarboe and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was edited by Keith Romer, with help from Shannon Shaw Duty fromOsage News.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Heat," "Stop the Missiles," and "My City Life." Enlarge this imageRichard Lonsinger at his home in Lawrence, Kansas, holding a photo of himself as a child shortly after he was adopted.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRRichard Lonsinger at his home in Lawrence, Kansas, holding a photo of himself as a child shortly after he was adopted.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR When Richard J. Lonsinger was just a toddler, he was abandoned by his mother at a bus stop in Texas, along with three of his siblings. A member of the Ponca tribe of Oklahoma, Lonsinger went first to foster care, and then was adopted by a white family. It wasn't until he reached his twenties that he really started to think a lot about where he had come from. To try to answer these questions, Lonsinger called the offices of the Ponca tribe, where he was put in touch with his birth family, including his birth mother and the rest of his siblings. He eventually made contact and tentatively began to form relationships with them. But when his birth mother passed away in 2010, Lonsinger was neither invited to her funeral nor included in the distribution of her estate. After a lifetime of feeling left out of his family, he decided to take action. He asked the probate court to reopen her estate and to distribute her assets equally among all of her eight children. One of her most valuable assets was something called an Osage headright. In 2014, the probate judge ruled in favor of Richard and his siblings who had been abandoned with him decades before. They would all receive equal shares of their birth mother's headright, an inheritance it would take Lonsinger the better part of a decade to fully understand. Enlarge this imageOil derricks like these are scattered across the land in the Osage Nation.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPROil derricks like these are scattered across the land in the Osage Nation.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR The history behind the headright system begins in the late 1800s, when the Osage were driven off their reservation in Kansas. They ultimately settled in Northern Oklahoma, purchasing new land with the blessing of the federal government. Then, in 1887, the Dawes Act was enacted in order to break up Indian land into parcels and allot those smaller pieces to individuals. Because the Osage had bought their land outright, though, they were better situated to resist the changes than many other tribes. When the U.S. government finally passed a statute in 1906 to allot Osage land, it included two important provisions. First, land would only be distributed to members of the Osage tribe. Second, no matter who owned that land, the rights for mineral resources like coal, gas and oil would still be owned collectively by the tribe. The rights to the oil, in particular, would turn out to be incredibly valuable. To divvy up the profits from the collectively owned mineral rights, a new system was put in place. Each of the 2,229 Osage members on the tribal rolls in 1907 was given an equal share of the money coming in, what would come to be called a "headright." Private companies would lease land from the tribe in order to extract oil, gas, gravel, or coal, and then pay a percentage of what they made into a trust managed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The BIA, in turn, would distribute payments from that trust to headright holders. Once the oil was really flowing, the Osage Nation became the wealthiest community in the world, per capita. People received payments worth hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in inflation-adjusted terms. They bought fancy clothes, big houses, and nice cars. News spread quickly, though, about all these suddenly wealthy people and attracted a raft of swindlers and conmen to Oklahoma. Ostensibly to help the Osage retain their wealth, the U.S. government put in place a system of guardianship, by which non-Osage were assigned to watch over members of the Osage tribe who were deemed "incompetent" to manage their money. In practice, guardianship was often an overtly racist system. Enlarge this imageHistorian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRHistorian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR Historian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR Historian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Historian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide caption Historian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide caption Historian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR Historian and White Hair Memorial program director Tara Damron stands in front of a portrait of Lillie Burkhart, a wealthy Osage headright holder who lived during the Osage Reign of Terror.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR "If you were considered a full-blood, American Indian, you were automatically deemed incompetent," says Tara Damron, Program Director with the White Hair Memorial Center in Hominy, Oklahoma, "so let's assign you a white guardian who's supposed to handle your financial affairs." Guardians would often pay themselves out of the money they were supposed to be protecting and then give their Osage wards a pittance in allowance. There were many instances of white people marrying people in the Osage tribe, sometimes by force, becoming their guardians, and then killing them for their headrights. (The bestselling book "Killers of the Flower Moon" by David Grann focuses on this time, known as the Osage Reign of Terror. A film adaptation of the book, directed by Martin Scorsese, is slated to be released this summer.) Throughout the 1920s many headrights left the tribe. Since that time there have been many amendments made to the original agreements between headright holders and the government intended to make the system less prone to abuse, but the way the money is distributed to headright holders by the federal government remains under dispute even today. Not long after Richard Lonsinger began receiving his first quarterly checks from the BIA, he began to educate himself about the history of the headright system. "I dove into really what it is and what it means," he says. In addition to the complex and violent history, Lonsinger also began to learn about the present-day legal battles over the control and management of the trust. One series of lawsuits, grouped under the name Fletcher v. The United States, alleges financial mismanagement and a lack of transparency on the part of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Another, brought by the Osage tribe itself, resulted in a settlement of 380 million dollars for headright holders in 2011. One big sticking point is the issue of non-Osage headright holders. According to reporting fromBloomberg News, a quarter of all headright payments go to non-Osages. Businesses, schools, churches, and individuals not affiliated with the Osage Nation, have all somehow become headright holders. Lonsinger likens the government's unwillingness to offer a fuller accounting of how headright holders' money is flowing to a relic from the past. "It's like reading a piece of history of what it used to be in the 1800s towards Native American," he says. In 2018, Lonsinger was recruited to join a new iteration of the Fletcher v. The United States lawsuits as a plaintiff in a class action. The lead lawyer on the case, Jason Aamodt, believed that adding Lonsinger, a Native American non-Osage headright holder, would strengthen the case. For Lonsinger, helping to fight for what he sees as Indigenous rights in the courts has been deeply meaningful on a personal level. "I'm so proud that I have an opportunity to be a part of this case. It means something, you know?" says Lonsinger. "Here I felt like I wasn't part of something, but I'm part of something that's much bigger." In the decade since Richard first tried to get his share of his birth mother's headright, he has had a lot of time to think about its significance, and who he thinks should own it. A few years ago, he made a decision about what should happen to his headright after he dies. In his estate planning he made it clear that he wants his headright to be left to the Osage Nation. This episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Alyssa Jeong Perry and Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Brian Jarboe and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was edited by Keith Romer, with help from Shannon Shaw Duty fromOsage News. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra