# [PODCAST] OpenAI DevDay, OpenAI's Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the Top

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/openai-devday-openais-wrenching-transition-lonely-at-the-top/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.R7505maEhJQyCe_JmvrHPt0zcrrSSpMHG0q2VvpO_a7e0SSwbyqi2zUT3RfTfKSwyqPOSOmCFUR2-avl69d1-BYyVF0LEGtkxLt9KoIN31ByOqF-E6d4Y7YjUDjPuuMNMpHY28PV4Y69XOOK2gLARNNpzszJC8acuRPrqHtVhqgxIB37pmkdB8sGol_Eu15s6VrS-aknHlYY9yINWL5yq1MdBPe1fahAFJeohpiP2hIHj81KZDmABxeThGL4Pa-JgYEMDiYNsmOWnRklZdwYyizDVIQFbYcQc5TIhtyMHXBlstAvCoAypjpgppz5tBFm2hN6KzU_RtFB2s858BfZ6Q
**Atlas ID**: 229688
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.942015

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirOpenAI DevDay, OpenAI’s Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the TopWednesday, October 2, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On last week’sSharp China, Bill and Andrew broke down China’s new stimulus measures, even as a top economist disappeared for criticizing the country’s economic policy. Then, over the weekend,Greatest of All Talkbroke down the Knicks-Timberwolves trade as the NBA season starts to ramp up.One logistical note: I will be traveling at the beginning of next week. At this point I do not plan on taking any days off, but if I don’t show up on one of Monday or Tuesday, that will be why.On to the Update:OpenAI DevDayLook, I usually have the grace to save the self-quotes for a bit further down in the Update, but I want to start with something I wroteon November 7, 2023:In 2013, when I started Stratechery, there was no bigger event than the launch of the new iPhone; its only rival was Google I/O, which is when the newest version of Android was unveiled (hardware always breaks the tie, including with Apple’s iOS introductions at WWDC). It wasn’t just that smartphones were relatively new and still adding critical features, but that the strategic decisions and ultimate fates of the platforms were still an open question. More than that, the entire future of the tech industry was clearly tied up in said platforms and their corresponding operating systems and devices; how could keynotes not be a big deal?Fast forward a decade and the tech keynote has diminished in importance and, in the case of Apple, disappeared completely, replaced by a pre-recorded marketing video. I want to be mad about it, but it makes sense: an iPhone introduction has been diminished not by Apple’s presentation, but rather Apple’s presentations reflect the reality that the most important questions around an iPhone are about marketing tactics. How do you segment the iPhone line? How do you price? What sort of brand affinity are you seeking to build? There, I just summarizedthe iPhone 15 introduction, and the reality that the smartphone era —The End of the Beginning— is over as far as strategic considerations are concerned. iOS and Android are a given, but what is next and yet unknown?The answer is, clearly, AI… and nothing [matches] the energy around yesterday’s OpenAI developer conference, their first ever: there is nothing more interesting in tech than a consumer product with product-market fit. And that, for me, is enough to bring back an old Stratechery standby: the keynote day-after.This was, first and foremost, a really good keynote, in the keynote-as-artifact sense. CEO Sam Altman, in a humorous exchange with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, promised, “I won’t take too much of your time”; never mind that Nadella was presumably in San Francisco just for this event: in this case he stood in for the audience who witnessed a presentation that was tight, with content that was interesting, leaving them with a desire to learn more.Altman himself had a good stage presence, with the sort of nervous energy that is only present in a live keynote; the fact he never seemed to know which side of the stage a fellow presenter was coming from was humanizing. Meanwhile, the live demos not only went off without a hitch, but leveraged the fact that they were live: in one instance a presenter instructed a GPT she created to text Altman; he held up his phone to show he got the message. In another a GPT randomly selected five members of the audience to receive $500 in OpenAI API credits, only to then extend it to everyone.New products and features, meanwhile, were available “today”, not weeks or months in the future, as is increasingly the case for events like I/O or WWDC; everything combined to give a palpable sense of progress and excitement, which, when it comes to AI, is mostly true.This was whatTechmemelooked like the evening of that keynote:There are actually two more news items about the keynote, but they didn’t fit on my screen; no surprise, though, big events from important companies always dominate the news cycle. Meanwhile, here is a screenshot of Techmeme from yesterday at the same time:I’m not here to talk about Microsoft directly, and certainly don’t really care about a new iPad mini or iPhone SE without a button (to paraphraseJim Barksdale, there are only two ways to innovate: add a button and remove a button!). Rather, the point — metapoint, really — is this item much further down the page that doesn’t even make it into the above screenshot:That long introduction I posted above was titledThe OpenAI Keynoteand the occasion was the company’s first-ever “DevDay”. DevDay 2023 was ahugedeal, with days of anticipation and preview articles, and tons of coverage and discussion afterwards.That little segment on Techmeme, meanwhile, is the only vestige of yesterday’s DevDay 2024. There isn’t even a keynote stream available ofthe closed event! The OpenAI of 2023, which seemed to bestride the world, has completely disappeared.OpenAI’s Wrenching TransitionBefore I descend completely into parody — look at the writer quoting himself and over-indexing on the metaphysics of a keynote! — let me quotethat TechCrunch articleto get the details of the announcements:As OpenAI undergoes yet another C-suite overhaul – a reminder of the turmoil following last year’s DevDay – the company is trying to convince developers that it still offers the best platform to build AI apps on…One of OpenAI’s new features, dubbed the Realtime API, will give developers the chance to build nearly real-time, speech-to-speech experiences in their apps, with the choice of using six voices provided by OpenAI. These voices are distinct from those offered for ChatGPT, and developers can’t use third party voices, in order to prevent copyright issues…OpenAI also introduced vision fine-tuning in its API, which will let developers use images, as well as text, to fine-tune their applications of GPT-4o…Lastly, OpenAI is offering a model distillation feature to let developers use larger AI models, such as o1-preview and GPT-4o, to fine-tune smaller models such as GPT-4o mini. Running smaller models generally provides cost savings compared to running larger ones, but this feature should let developers improve the performance of those small AI models. As part of model distillation, OpenAI is launching a beta evaluation tool so developers can measure their fine-tune’s performance within OpenAI’s API.DevDay may make bigger waves for what it didn’t announce. For instance, there wasn’t any news about the GPT Store announced during last year’s DevDay. Last we’ve heard, OpenAI has been piloting a revenue share program with some of the most popular creators of GPTs, but the company hasn’t shared much since then. Also, OpenAI says it’s not releasing any new AI models during DevDay this year. Developers waiting for OpenAI o1 (not the preview or mini version) or the startup’s video generation model, Sora, will have to wait a little longer.These are all fine updates but they don’t, in OpenAI’s defense, really amount to a hype-worthy event. That, though, makes it a bit odd that the company announcedo1onlya couple of weeks ago; that was a hype-worthy announcement that could have waited two weeks, which suggests that keeping things low-key was very much an explicit choice.And, of course, that’s understandable given what else happened last November: it was only two weeks after DevDay 2023 that Altman was temporarily deposed as OpenAI’s CEO, and as the opening of this excerpt references, many of the OpenAI headlines over the last 11 months have been about the steady exodus of major players in that drama, even as Altman consolidates control. In retrospect, the critical moment was the November before that, with the release of ChatGPT and it’s unexpected success. From theWall Street journal:In less than two years, OpenAI has gone from a little-known nonprofit lab working on obscure technology to a world-famous business whose chief executive is the face of the artificial-intelligence revolution. That change is tearing the company apart.On Wednesday, OpenAI’s chief technology officer became the latest high-profile executive to announce an exit, departing as the company prepares to become a for-profit corporation. The exits are public eruptions of tensions that have been growing in the company behind ChatGPT since CEO Sam Altman returned following his brief ouster last year. Some tensions are related to conflicts between OpenAI’s original mission to develop AI for the public good and new initiatives to deploy moneymaking products. Others relate to chaos and infighting among executives worthy of a soap opera. CTO Mira Murati is one of more than 20 OpenAI researchers and executives who have quit this year, including several co-founders.In March 2023 I called OpenAIThe Accidental Consumer Tech Company:Last November, OpenAI was an excitingfat startupmaking an audacious bet on an AI future (albeit witha very unconventional structure). The most obvious business model for the research-focused company was the OpenAI API, access to which was sold on a usage basis.Then came ChatGPT. Within a matter of weeks ChatGPT had over 100 million users, marking the fastest growth of a consumer app ever, and by all accountsit’s still growing rapidly; OpenAI, whether they intended to or not, suddenly found itself a consumer tech company.I argued in that Update that OpenAI needed to respond to this unexpected opportunity by overhauling its entire business:In this world, what exactly is the point of having an API that is completely disconnected from the consumer user experience, and which implies support and backwards compatibility for a usage-based consumption model that actually makes your core product worse (by using up GPUs)? That’s why I wasn’t surprised when OpenAIkilled support for the Codex API; after an outcry CEO Sam Altmansaid that OpenAI would preserve the API for researchers, which I guess is in line with whatever remains of OpenAI’s mission.However, from a cold-blooded business analysis perspective, OpenAI didn’t go far enough: yes, the company has had an API for a long time, and once thought it was its business model; ChatGPT, though, made it a consumer tech company, and the next step after accepting that reality is making the hard business decisions that entails — including not wasting precious time and resources, including GPU capacity — on maintaining APIs that other companies depend on.It seems clear in retrospect that I made the exact sort of mistakeI wrote about last week: I was being very analytical about the entire thing, and completely discounting the challenges that come from enacting these sorts of wrenching changes. And yet, the financial evidence is that my prescription was correct; from theNew York Times:OpenAI’s monthly revenue hit $300 million in August, up 1,700 percent since the beginning of 2023, and the company expects about $3.7 billion in annual sales this year, according to financial documents reviewed by The New York Times. OpenAI estimates that its revenue will balloon to $11.6 billion next year…Most of that has come from the continuing popularity of ChatGPT, which was released in November 2022. The documents show a spike in growth after ChatGPT began allowing people to use the service without creating an account or logging in. The company expects ChatGPT to bring in $2.7 billion in revenue this year, up from $700 million in 2023, with $1 billion coming from other businesses using its technology.Roughly 10 million ChatGPT users pay the company a $20 monthly fee, according to the documents. OpenAI expects to raise that price by $2 by the end of the year, and will aggressively raise it to $44 over the next five years, the documents said. More than one million third-party developers use OpenAI’s technology to power their own services. OpenAI predicts its revenue will hit $100 billion in 2029, which would roughly match the current annual sales of Nestlé or Target.This news is all in the context of OpenAI’s reportedly imminent fundraising that will value the company at $150 billion and start the shift to a for-profit structure. That’s not a crazy number given these revenue figures. To take Facebook as an example, the company was valued at $15 billion on around $150 million in revenue in 2007 (a 100x revenue multiple), two-and-a-half years after launching (to take an analogous timeframe to the ChatGPT launch). Facebook reached $4 billion in revenue four years later, when it was valued in private markets at around $100 billion (a 25x revenue multiple). OpenAI’s proposed valuation is a 40x multiple on this year’s revenue and a 13x multiple on next year’s forecasted revenue.Of course this isn’t an entirely fair comparison, given that I’m only counting the time since the launch of ChatGPT; OpenAI was actually foundedin December 2015. That distinction, though, is kind of my point: the company that was founded nine years ago is a research non-profit that is — appropriately, I argued in that piece one-and-a-half years ago — dying to make way for a consumer tech company whose most valuable asset is not its models but rather the brand ChatGPT. Indeed, you could make the case that the true upside for investors in this raise would be OpenAI abandoning the model-building business completely and slapping the ChatGPT brand on top of models from other entities (this would obviously be a much more asset-light approach that would further validate comparisons to a company like late 2000’s Facebook).I don’t, for the record, think that will happen, or even should; a big part of the upside for investors is the tantalizing allure of true artificial general intelligence (AGI), and beyond that, artificial super intelligence (ASI). At the same time, the fact I could even make this argument speaks to what a wrenching change OpenAI has gone through because of the unexpected success of ChatGPT. If anything, you could further make the case that all of the OpenAI drama is actually a discount to the true value of ChatGPT.Lonely At the TopApple, meanwhile, after being rumored to be a part of this fundraise, is now out, according to theWall Street Journal. I’m not surprised the iPhone maker is getting cold feet;I was convinced Apple would partner with Google, both because Google would have the infrastructure to support Apple’s massive userbase, and also because Apple and Google had a long-running partnership with search. It seemed like the safer option, and that’s even before you get to OpenAI’s internal instability.I do wonder if Apple is wondering if it made a mistake, and part of this decision is about not throwing good money after bad partnership announcements; they can take solace in the fact that they aren’t in as deep in Microsoft, which has beencasting aboutfor hedges, while drastically shifting its messaging about model differentiation. We are coming up on the one-year anniversary ofMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella spending an entire earnings callbragging about the advantages Microsoft had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models, and how that gave the company a long-term cost advantage. Fast forward tolast month’s Copilot Wave 2 announcement, and Nadella emphasized in his prepared remarks that “the models themselves become more of a commodity”; I can’t over-emphasize what a complete turnaround this is from the company’s strategy a year prior, and I expect we’ll see more and more evidence of Microsoft seeking to reduce its OpenAI dependencies over the coming months.And, to take this all full circle, that may be good for OpenAI. Consumer tech companies are the top of the stack in more ways than one: on the product side they are where customers go, and when it comes to their value chain they naturally end up in positions where other companies service them, not the other way around. It’s the highest prize in tech, but it’s a long and difficult journey to get there. And, when you reach the top, it’s pretty lonely; OpenAI and Altman are just speed-running the lonely part.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedOpenAI’s Misalignment and Microsoft’s GainDateMonday, November 20, 2023The OpenAI KeynoteDateTuesday, November 7, 20232025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025←Taking Waymo, Uber and WaymoAn Interview with Gregory Allen About Transforming U.S. Defense→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air OpenAI DevDay, OpenAI’s Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the TopWednesday, October 2, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On last week’sSharp China, Bill and Andrew broke down China’s new stimulus measures, even as a top economist disappeared for criticizing the country’s economic policy. Then, over the weekend,Greatest of All Talkbroke down the Knicks-Timberwolves trade as the NBA season starts to ramp up.One logistical note: I will be traveling at the beginning of next week. At this point I do not plan on taking any days off, but if I don’t show up on one of Monday or Tuesday, that will be why.On to the Update:OpenAI DevDayLook, I usually have the grace to save the self-quotes for a bit further down in the Update, but I want to start with something I wroteon November 7, 2023:In 2013, when I started Stratechery, there was no bigger event than the launch of the new iPhone; its only rival was Google I/O, which is when the newest version of Android was unveiled (hardware always breaks the tie, including with Apple’s iOS introductions at WWDC). It wasn’t just that smartphones were relatively new and still adding critical features, but that the strategic decisions and ultimate fates of the platforms were still an open question. More than that, the entire future of the tech industry was clearly tied up in said platforms and their corresponding operating systems and devices; how could keynotes not be a big deal?Fast forward a decade and the tech keynote has diminished in importance and, in the case of Apple, disappeared completely, replaced by a pre-recorded marketing video. I want to be mad about it, but it makes sense: an iPhone introduction has been diminished not by Apple’s presentation, but rather Apple’s presentations reflect the reality that the most important questions around an iPhone are about marketing tactics. How do you segment the iPhone line? How do you price? What sort of brand affinity are you seeking to build? There, I just summarizedthe iPhone 15 introduction, and the reality that the smartphone era —The End of the Beginning— is over as far as strategic considerations are concerned. iOS and Android are a given, but what is next and yet unknown?The answer is, clearly, AI… and nothing [matches] the energy around yesterday’s OpenAI developer conference, their first ever: there is nothing more interesting in tech than a consumer product with product-market fit. And that, for me, is enough to bring back an old Stratechery standby: the keynote day-after.This was, first and foremost, a really good keynote, in the keynote-as-artifact sense. CEO Sam Altman, in a humorous exchange with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, promised, “I won’t take too much of your time”; never mind that Nadella was presumably in San Francisco just for this event: in this case he stood in for the audience who witnessed a presentation that was tight, with content that was interesting, leaving them with a desire to learn more.Altman himself had a good stage presence, with the sort of nervous energy that is only present in a live keynote; the fact he never seemed to know which side of the stage a fellow presenter was coming from was humanizing. Meanwhile, the live demos not only went off without a hitch, but leveraged the fact that they were live: in one instance a presenter instructed a GPT she created to text Altman; he held up his phone to show he got the message. In another a GPT randomly selected five members of the audience to receive $500 in OpenAI API credits, only to then extend it to everyone.New products and features, meanwhile, were available “today”, not weeks or months in the future, as is increasingly the case for events like I/O or WWDC; everything combined to give a palpable sense of progress and excitement, which, when it comes to AI, is mostly true.This was whatTechmemelooked like the evening of that keynote:There are actually two more news items about the keynote, but they didn’t fit on my screen; no surprise, though, big events from important companies always dominate the news cycle. Meanwhile, here is a screenshot of Techmeme from yesterday at the same time:I’m not here to talk about Microsoft directly, and certainly don’t really care about a new iPad mini or iPhone SE without a button (to paraphraseJim Barksdale, there are only two ways to innovate: add a button and remove a button!). Rather, the point — metapoint, really — is this item much further down the page that doesn’t even make it into the above screenshot:That long introduction I posted above was titledThe OpenAI Keynoteand the occasion was the company’s first-ever “DevDay”. DevDay 2023 was ahugedeal, with days of anticipation and preview articles, and tons of coverage and discussion afterwards.That little segment on Techmeme, meanwhile, is the only vestige of yesterday’s DevDay 2024. There isn’t even a keynote stream available ofthe closed event! The OpenAI of 2023, which seemed to bestride the world, has completely disappeared.OpenAI’s Wrenching TransitionBefore I descend completely into parody — look at the writer quoting himself and over-indexing on the metaphysics of a keynote! — let me quotethat TechCrunch articleto get the details of the announcements:As OpenAI undergoes yet another C-suite overhaul – a reminder of the turmoil following last year’s DevDay – the company is trying to convince developers that it still offers the best platform to build AI apps on…One of OpenAI’s new features, dubbed the Realtime API, will give developers the chance to build nearly real-time, speech-to-speech experiences in their apps, with the choice of using six voices provided by OpenAI. These voices are distinct from those offered for ChatGPT, and developers can’t use third party voices, in order to prevent copyright issues…OpenAI also introduced vision fine-tuning in its API, which will let developers use images, as well as text, to fine-tune their applications of GPT-4o…Lastly, OpenAI is offering a model distillation feature to let developers use larger AI models, such as o1-preview and GPT-4o, to fine-tune smaller models such as GPT-4o mini. Running smaller models generally provides cost savings compared to running larger ones, but this feature should let developers improve the performance of those small AI models. As part of model distillation, OpenAI is launching a beta evaluation tool so developers can measure their fine-tune’s performance within OpenAI’s API.DevDay may make bigger waves for what it didn’t announce. For instance, there wasn’t any news about the GPT Store announced during last year’s DevDay. Last we’ve heard, OpenAI has been piloting a revenue share program with some of the most popular creators of GPTs, but the company hasn’t shared much since then. Also, OpenAI says it’s not releasing any new AI models during DevDay this year. Developers waiting for OpenAI o1 (not the preview or mini version) or the startup’s video generation model, Sora, will have to wait a little longer.These are all fine updates but they don’t, in OpenAI’s defense, really amount to a hype-worthy event. That, though, makes it a bit odd that the company announcedo1onlya couple of weeks ago; that was a hype-worthy announcement that could have waited two weeks, which suggests that keeping things low-key was very much an explicit choice.And, of course, that’s understandable given what else happened last November: it was only two weeks after DevDay 2023 that Altman was temporarily deposed as OpenAI’s CEO, and as the opening of this excerpt references, many of the OpenAI headlines over the last 11 months have been about the steady exodus of major players in that drama, even as Altman consolidates control. In retrospect, the critical moment was the November before that, with the release of ChatGPT and it’s unexpected success. From theWall Street journal:In less than two years, OpenAI has gone from a little-known nonprofit lab working on obscure technology to a world-famous business whose chief executive is the face of the artificial-intelligence revolution. That change is tearing the company apart.On Wednesday, OpenAI’s chief technology officer became the latest high-profile executive to announce an exit, departing as the company prepares to become a for-profit corporation. The exits are public eruptions of tensions that have been growing in the company behind ChatGPT since CEO Sam Altman returned following his brief ouster last year. Some tensions are related to conflicts between OpenAI’s original mission to develop AI for the public good and new initiatives to deploy moneymaking products. Others relate to chaos and infighting among executives worthy of a soap opera. CTO Mira Murati is one of more than 20 OpenAI researchers and executives who have quit this year, including several co-founders.In March 2023 I called OpenAIThe Accidental Consumer Tech Company:Last November, OpenAI was an excitingfat startupmaking an audacious bet on an AI future (albeit witha very unconventional structure). The most obvious business model for the research-focused company was the OpenAI API, access to which was sold on a usage basis.Then came ChatGPT. Within a matter of weeks ChatGPT had over 100 million users, marking the fastest growth of a consumer app ever, and by all accountsit’s still growing rapidly; OpenAI, whether they intended to or not, suddenly found itself a consumer tech company.I argued in that Update that OpenAI needed to respond to this unexpected opportunity by overhauling its entire business:In this world, what exactly is the point of having an API that is completely disconnected from the consumer user experience, and which implies support and backwards compatibility for a usage-based consumption model that actually makes your core product worse (by using up GPUs)? That’s why I wasn’t surprised when OpenAIkilled support for the Codex API; after an outcry CEO Sam Altmansaid that OpenAI would preserve the API for researchers, which I guess is in line with whatever remains of OpenAI’s mission.However, from a cold-blooded business analysis perspective, OpenAI didn’t go far enough: yes, the company has had an API for a long time, and once thought it was its business model; ChatGPT, though, made it a consumer tech company, and the next step after accepting that reality is making the hard business decisions that entails — including not wasting precious time and resources, including GPU capacity — on maintaining APIs that other companies depend on.It seems clear in retrospect that I made the exact sort of mistakeI wrote about last week: I was being very analytical about the entire thing, and completely discounting the challenges that come from enacting these sorts of wrenching changes. And yet, the financial evidence is that my prescription was correct; from theNew York Times:OpenAI’s monthly revenue hit $300 million in August, up 1,700 percent since the beginning of 2023, and the company expects about $3.7 billion in annual sales this year, according to financial documents reviewed by The New York Times. OpenAI estimates that its revenue will balloon to $11.6 billion next year…Most of that has come from the continuing popularity of ChatGPT, which was released in November 2022. The documents show a spike in growth after ChatGPT began allowing people to use the service without creating an account or logging in. The company expects ChatGPT to bring in $2.7 billion in revenue this year, up from $700 million in 2023, with $1 billion coming from other businesses using its technology.Roughly 10 million ChatGPT users pay the company a $20 monthly fee, according to the documents. OpenAI expects to raise that price by $2 by the end of the year, and will aggressively raise it to $44 over the next five years, the documents said. More than one million third-party developers use OpenAI’s technology to power their own services. OpenAI predicts its revenue will hit $100 billion in 2029, which would roughly match the current annual sales of Nestlé or Target.This news is all in the context of OpenAI’s reportedly imminent fundraising that will value the company at $150 billion and start the shift to a for-profit structure. That’s not a crazy number given these revenue figures. To take Facebook as an example, the company was valued at $15 billion on around $150 million in revenue in 2007 (a 100x revenue multiple), two-and-a-half years after launching (to take an analogous timeframe to the ChatGPT launch). Facebook reached $4 billion in revenue four years later, when it was valued in private markets at around $100 billion (a 25x revenue multiple). OpenAI’s proposed valuation is a 40x multiple on this year’s revenue and a 13x multiple on next year’s forecasted revenue.Of course this isn’t an entirely fair comparison, given that I’m only counting the time since the launch of ChatGPT; OpenAI was actually foundedin December 2015. That distinction, though, is kind of my point: the company that was founded nine years ago is a research non-profit that is — appropriately, I argued in that piece one-and-a-half years ago — dying to make way for a consumer tech company whose most valuable asset is not its models but rather the brand ChatGPT. Indeed, you could make the case that the true upside for investors in this raise would be OpenAI abandoning the model-building business completely and slapping the ChatGPT brand on top of models from other entities (this would obviously be a much more asset-light approach that would further validate comparisons to a company like late 2000’s Facebook).I don’t, for the record, think that will happen, or even should; a big part of the upside for investors is the tantalizing allure of true artificial general intelligence (AGI), and beyond that, artificial super intelligence (ASI). At the same time, the fact I could even make this argument speaks to what a wrenching change OpenAI has gone through because of the unexpected success of ChatGPT. If anything, you could further make the case that all of the OpenAI drama is actually a discount to the true value of ChatGPT.Lonely At the TopApple, meanwhile, after being rumored to be a part of this fundraise, is now out, according to theWall Street Journal. I’m not surprised the iPhone maker is getting cold feet;I was convinced Apple would partner with Google, both because Google would have the infrastructure to support Apple’s massive userbase, and also because Apple and Google had a long-running partnership with search. It seemed like the safer option, and that’s even before you get to OpenAI’s internal instability.I do wonder if Apple is wondering if it made a mistake, and part of this decision is about not throwing good money after bad partnership announcements; they can take solace in the fact that they aren’t in as deep in Microsoft, which has beencasting aboutfor hedges, while drastically shifting its messaging about model differentiation. We are coming up on the one-year anniversary ofMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella spending an entire earnings callbragging about the advantages Microsoft had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models, and how that gave the company a long-term cost advantage. Fast forward tolast month’s Copilot Wave 2 announcement, and Nadella emphasized in his prepared remarks that “the models themselves become more of a commodity”; I can’t over-emphasize what a complete turnaround this is from the company’s strategy a year prior, and I expect we’ll see more and more evidence of Microsoft seeking to reduce its OpenAI dependencies over the coming months.And, to take this all full circle, that may be good for OpenAI. Consumer tech companies are the top of the stack in more ways than one: on the product side they are where customers go, and when it comes to their value chain they naturally end up in positions where other companies service them, not the other way around. It’s the highest prize in tech, but it’s a long and difficult journey to get there. And, when you reach the top, it’s pretty lonely; OpenAI and Altman are just speed-running the lonely part.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedOpenAI’s Misalignment and Microsoft’s GainDateMonday, November 20, 2023The OpenAI KeynoteDateTuesday, November 7, 20232025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025←Taking Waymo, Uber and WaymoAn Interview with Gregory Allen About Transforming U.S. Defense→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All OpenAI DevDay, OpenAI’s Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the TopWednesday, October 2, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On last week’sSharp China, Bill and Andrew broke down China’s new stimulus measures, even as a top economist disappeared for criticizing the country’s economic policy. Then, over the weekend,Greatest of All Talkbroke down the Knicks-Timberwolves trade as the NBA season starts to ramp up.One logistical note: I will be traveling at the beginning of next week. At this point I do not plan on taking any days off, but if I don’t show up on one of Monday or Tuesday, that will be why.On to the Update:OpenAI DevDayLook, I usually have the grace to save the self-quotes for a bit further down in the Update, but I want to start with something I wroteon November 7, 2023:In 2013, when I started Stratechery, there was no bigger event than the launch of the new iPhone; its only rival was Google I/O, which is when the newest version of Android was unveiled (hardware always breaks the tie, including with Apple’s iOS introductions at WWDC). It wasn’t just that smartphones were relatively new and still adding critical features, but that the strategic decisions and ultimate fates of the platforms were still an open question. More than that, the entire future of the tech industry was clearly tied up in said platforms and their corresponding operating systems and devices; how could keynotes not be a big deal?Fast forward a decade and the tech keynote has diminished in importance and, in the case of Apple, disappeared completely, replaced by a pre-recorded marketing video. I want to be mad about it, but it makes sense: an iPhone introduction has been diminished not by Apple’s presentation, but rather Apple’s presentations reflect the reality that the most important questions around an iPhone are about marketing tactics. How do you segment the iPhone line? How do you price? What sort of brand affinity are you seeking to build? There, I just summarizedthe iPhone 15 introduction, and the reality that the smartphone era —The End of the Beginning— is over as far as strategic considerations are concerned. iOS and Android are a given, but what is next and yet unknown?The answer is, clearly, AI… and nothing [matches] the energy around yesterday’s OpenAI developer conference, their first ever: there is nothing more interesting in tech than a consumer product with product-market fit. And that, for me, is enough to bring back an old Stratechery standby: the keynote day-after.This was, first and foremost, a really good keynote, in the keynote-as-artifact sense. CEO Sam Altman, in a humorous exchange with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, promised, “I won’t take too much of your time”; never mind that Nadella was presumably in San Francisco just for this event: in this case he stood in for the audience who witnessed a presentation that was tight, with content that was interesting, leaving them with a desire to learn more.Altman himself had a good stage presence, with the sort of nervous energy that is only present in a live keynote; the fact he never seemed to know which side of the stage a fellow presenter was coming from was humanizing. Meanwhile, the live demos not only went off without a hitch, but leveraged the fact that they were live: in one instance a presenter instructed a GPT she created to text Altman; he held up his phone to show he got the message. In another a GPT randomly selected five members of the audience to receive $500 in OpenAI API credits, only to then extend it to everyone.New products and features, meanwhile, were available “today”, not weeks or months in the future, as is increasingly the case for events like I/O or WWDC; everything combined to give a palpable sense of progress and excitement, which, when it comes to AI, is mostly true.This was whatTechmemelooked like the evening of that keynote:There are actually two more news items about the keynote, but they didn’t fit on my screen; no surprise, though, big events from important companies always dominate the news cycle. Meanwhile, here is a screenshot of Techmeme from yesterday at the same time:I’m not here to talk about Microsoft directly, and certainly don’t really care about a new iPad mini or iPhone SE without a button (to paraphraseJim Barksdale, there are only two ways to innovate: add a button and remove a button!). Rather, the point — metapoint, really — is this item much further down the page that doesn’t even make it into the above screenshot:That long introduction I posted above was titledThe OpenAI Keynoteand the occasion was the company’s first-ever “DevDay”. DevDay 2023 was ahugedeal, with days of anticipation and preview articles, and tons of coverage and discussion afterwards.That little segment on Techmeme, meanwhile, is the only vestige of yesterday’s DevDay 2024. There isn’t even a keynote stream available ofthe closed event! The OpenAI of 2023, which seemed to bestride the world, has completely disappeared.OpenAI’s Wrenching TransitionBefore I descend completely into parody — look at the writer quoting himself and over-indexing on the metaphysics of a keynote! — let me quotethat TechCrunch articleto get the details of the announcements:As OpenAI undergoes yet another C-suite overhaul – a reminder of the turmoil following last year’s DevDay – the company is trying to convince developers that it still offers the best platform to build AI apps on…One of OpenAI’s new features, dubbed the Realtime API, will give developers the chance to build nearly real-time, speech-to-speech experiences in their apps, with the choice of using six voices provided by OpenAI. These voices are distinct from those offered for ChatGPT, and developers can’t use third party voices, in order to prevent copyright issues…OpenAI also introduced vision fine-tuning in its API, which will let developers use images, as well as text, to fine-tune their applications of GPT-4o…Lastly, OpenAI is offering a model distillation feature to let developers use larger AI models, such as o1-preview and GPT-4o, to fine-tune smaller models such as GPT-4o mini. Running smaller models generally provides cost savings compared to running larger ones, but this feature should let developers improve the performance of those small AI models. As part of model distillation, OpenAI is launching a beta evaluation tool so developers can measure their fine-tune’s performance within OpenAI’s API.DevDay may make bigger waves for what it didn’t announce. For instance, there wasn’t any news about the GPT Store announced during last year’s DevDay. Last we’ve heard, OpenAI has been piloting a revenue share program with some of the most popular creators of GPTs, but the company hasn’t shared much since then. Also, OpenAI says it’s not releasing any new AI models during DevDay this year. Developers waiting for OpenAI o1 (not the preview or mini version) or the startup’s video generation model, Sora, will have to wait a little longer.These are all fine updates but they don’t, in OpenAI’s defense, really amount to a hype-worthy event. That, though, makes it a bit odd that the company announcedo1onlya couple of weeks ago; that was a hype-worthy announcement that could have waited two weeks, which suggests that keeping things low-key was very much an explicit choice.And, of course, that’s understandable given what else happened last November: it was only two weeks after DevDay 2023 that Altman was temporarily deposed as OpenAI’s CEO, and as the opening of this excerpt references, many of the OpenAI headlines over the last 11 months have been about the steady exodus of major players in that drama, even as Altman consolidates control. In retrospect, the critical moment was the November before that, with the release of ChatGPT and it’s unexpected success. From theWall Street journal:In less than two years, OpenAI has gone from a little-known nonprofit lab working on obscure technology to a world-famous business whose chief executive is the face of the artificial-intelligence revolution. That change is tearing the company apart.On Wednesday, OpenAI’s chief technology officer became the latest high-profile executive to announce an exit, departing as the company prepares to become a for-profit corporation. The exits are public eruptions of tensions that have been growing in the company behind ChatGPT since CEO Sam Altman returned following his brief ouster last year. Some tensions are related to conflicts between OpenAI’s original mission to develop AI for the public good and new initiatives to deploy moneymaking products. Others relate to chaos and infighting among executives worthy of a soap opera. CTO Mira Murati is one of more than 20 OpenAI researchers and executives who have quit this year, including several co-founders.In March 2023 I called OpenAIThe Accidental Consumer Tech Company:Last November, OpenAI was an excitingfat startupmaking an audacious bet on an AI future (albeit witha very unconventional structure). The most obvious business model for the research-focused company was the OpenAI API, access to which was sold on a usage basis.Then came ChatGPT. Within a matter of weeks ChatGPT had over 100 million users, marking the fastest growth of a consumer app ever, and by all accountsit’s still growing rapidly; OpenAI, whether they intended to or not, suddenly found itself a consumer tech company.I argued in that Update that OpenAI needed to respond to this unexpected opportunity by overhauling its entire business:In this world, what exactly is the point of having an API that is completely disconnected from the consumer user experience, and which implies support and backwards compatibility for a usage-based consumption model that actually makes your core product worse (by using up GPUs)? That’s why I wasn’t surprised when OpenAIkilled support for the Codex API; after an outcry CEO Sam Altmansaid that OpenAI would preserve the API for researchers, which I guess is in line with whatever remains of OpenAI’s mission.However, from a cold-blooded business analysis perspective, OpenAI didn’t go far enough: yes, the company has had an API for a long time, and once thought it was its business model; ChatGPT, though, made it a consumer tech company, and the next step after accepting that reality is making the hard business decisions that entails — including not wasting precious time and resources, including GPU capacity — on maintaining APIs that other companies depend on.It seems clear in retrospect that I made the exact sort of mistakeI wrote about last week: I was being very analytical about the entire thing, and completely discounting the challenges that come from enacting these sorts of wrenching changes. And yet, the financial evidence is that my prescription was correct; from theNew York Times:OpenAI’s monthly revenue hit $300 million in August, up 1,700 percent since the beginning of 2023, and the company expects about $3.7 billion in annual sales this year, according to financial documents reviewed by The New York Times. OpenAI estimates that its revenue will balloon to $11.6 billion next year…Most of that has come from the continuing popularity of ChatGPT, which was released in November 2022. The documents show a spike in growth after ChatGPT began allowing people to use the service without creating an account or logging in. The company expects ChatGPT to bring in $2.7 billion in revenue this year, up from $700 million in 2023, with $1 billion coming from other businesses using its technology.Roughly 10 million ChatGPT users pay the company a $20 monthly fee, according to the documents. OpenAI expects to raise that price by $2 by the end of the year, and will aggressively raise it to $44 over the next five years, the documents said. More than one million third-party developers use OpenAI’s technology to power their own services. OpenAI predicts its revenue will hit $100 billion in 2029, which would roughly match the current annual sales of Nestlé or Target.This news is all in the context of OpenAI’s reportedly imminent fundraising that will value the company at $150 billion and start the shift to a for-profit structure. That’s not a crazy number given these revenue figures. To take Facebook as an example, the company was valued at $15 billion on around $150 million in revenue in 2007 (a 100x revenue multiple), two-and-a-half years after launching (to take an analogous timeframe to the ChatGPT launch). Facebook reached $4 billion in revenue four years later, when it was valued in private markets at around $100 billion (a 25x revenue multiple). OpenAI’s proposed valuation is a 40x multiple on this year’s revenue and a 13x multiple on next year’s forecasted revenue.Of course this isn’t an entirely fair comparison, given that I’m only counting the time since the launch of ChatGPT; OpenAI was actually foundedin December 2015. That distinction, though, is kind of my point: the company that was founded nine years ago is a research non-profit that is — appropriately, I argued in that piece one-and-a-half years ago — dying to make way for a consumer tech company whose most valuable asset is not its models but rather the brand ChatGPT. Indeed, you could make the case that the true upside for investors in this raise would be OpenAI abandoning the model-building business completely and slapping the ChatGPT brand on top of models from other entities (this would obviously be a much more asset-light approach that would further validate comparisons to a company like late 2000’s Facebook).I don’t, for the record, think that will happen, or even should; a big part of the upside for investors is the tantalizing allure of true artificial general intelligence (AGI), and beyond that, artificial super intelligence (ASI). At the same time, the fact I could even make this argument speaks to what a wrenching change OpenAI has gone through because of the unexpected success of ChatGPT. If anything, you could further make the case that all of the OpenAI drama is actually a discount to the true value of ChatGPT.Lonely At the TopApple, meanwhile, after being rumored to be a part of this fundraise, is now out, according to theWall Street Journal. I’m not surprised the iPhone maker is getting cold feet;I was convinced Apple would partner with Google, both because Google would have the infrastructure to support Apple’s massive userbase, and also because Apple and Google had a long-running partnership with search. It seemed like the safer option, and that’s even before you get to OpenAI’s internal instability.I do wonder if Apple is wondering if it made a mistake, and part of this decision is about not throwing good money after bad partnership announcements; they can take solace in the fact that they aren’t in as deep in Microsoft, which has beencasting aboutfor hedges, while drastically shifting its messaging about model differentiation. We are coming up on the one-year anniversary ofMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella spending an entire earnings callbragging about the advantages Microsoft had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models, and how that gave the company a long-term cost advantage. Fast forward tolast month’s Copilot Wave 2 announcement, and Nadella emphasized in his prepared remarks that “the models themselves become more of a commodity”; I can’t over-emphasize what a complete turnaround this is from the company’s strategy a year prior, and I expect we’ll see more and more evidence of Microsoft seeking to reduce its OpenAI dependencies over the coming months.And, to take this all full circle, that may be good for OpenAI. Consumer tech companies are the top of the stack in more ways than one: on the product side they are where customers go, and when it comes to their value chain they naturally end up in positions where other companies service them, not the other way around. It’s the highest prize in tech, but it’s a long and difficult journey to get there. And, when you reach the top, it’s pretty lonely; OpenAI and Altman are just speed-running the lonely part.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedOpenAI’s Misalignment and Microsoft’s GainDateMonday, November 20, 2023The OpenAI KeynoteDateTuesday, November 7, 20232025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025←Taking Waymo, Uber and WaymoAn Interview with Gregory Allen About Transforming U.S. Defense→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On last week’sSharp China, Bill and Andrew broke down China’s new stimulus measures, even as a top economist disappeared for criticizing the country’s economic policy. Then, over the weekend,Greatest of All Talkbroke down the Knicks-Timberwolves trade as the NBA season starts to ramp up.One logistical note: I will be traveling at the beginning of next week. At this point I do not plan on taking any days off, but if I don’t show up on one of Monday or Tuesday, that will be why.On to the Update:OpenAI DevDayLook, I usually have the grace to save the self-quotes for a bit further down in the Update, but I want to start with something I wroteon November 7, 2023:In 2013, when I started Stratechery, there was no bigger event than the launch of the new iPhone; its only rival was Google I/O, which is when the newest version of Android was unveiled (hardware always breaks the tie, including with Apple’s iOS introductions at WWDC). It wasn’t just that smartphones were relatively new and still adding critical features, but that the strategic decisions and ultimate fates of the platforms were still an open question. More than that, the entire future of the tech industry was clearly tied up in said platforms and their corresponding operating systems and devices; how could keynotes not be a big deal?Fast forward a decade and the tech keynote has diminished in importance and, in the case of Apple, disappeared completely, replaced by a pre-recorded marketing video. I want to be mad about it, but it makes sense: an iPhone introduction has been diminished not by Apple’s presentation, but rather Apple’s presentations reflect the reality that the most important questions around an iPhone are about marketing tactics. How do you segment the iPhone line? How do you price? What sort of brand affinity are you seeking to build? There, I just summarizedthe iPhone 15 introduction, and the reality that the smartphone era —The End of the Beginning— is over as far as strategic considerations are concerned. iOS and Android are a given, but what is next and yet unknown?The answer is, clearly, AI… and nothing [matches] the energy around yesterday’s OpenAI developer conference, their first ever: there is nothing more interesting in tech than a consumer product with product-market fit. And that, for me, is enough to bring back an old Stratechery standby: the keynote day-after.This was, first and foremost, a really good keynote, in the keynote-as-artifact sense. CEO Sam Altman, in a humorous exchange with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, promised, “I won’t take too much of your time”; never mind that Nadella was presumably in San Francisco just for this event: in this case he stood in for the audience who witnessed a presentation that was tight, with content that was interesting, leaving them with a desire to learn more.Altman himself had a good stage presence, with the sort of nervous energy that is only present in a live keynote; the fact he never seemed to know which side of the stage a fellow presenter was coming from was humanizing. Meanwhile, the live demos not only went off without a hitch, but leveraged the fact that they were live: in one instance a presenter instructed a GPT she created to text Altman; he held up his phone to show he got the message. In another a GPT randomly selected five members of the audience to receive $500 in OpenAI API credits, only to then extend it to everyone.New products and features, meanwhile, were available “today”, not weeks or months in the future, as is increasingly the case for events like I/O or WWDC; everything combined to give a palpable sense of progress and excitement, which, when it comes to AI, is mostly true.This was whatTechmemelooked like the evening of that keynote:There are actually two more news items about the keynote, but they didn’t fit on my screen; no surprise, though, big events from important companies always dominate the news cycle. Meanwhile, here is a screenshot of Techmeme from yesterday at the same time:I’m not here to talk about Microsoft directly, and certainly don’t really care about a new iPad mini or iPhone SE without a button (to paraphraseJim Barksdale, there are only two ways to innovate: add a button and remove a button!). Rather, the point — metapoint, really — is this item much further down the page that doesn’t even make it into the above screenshot:That long introduction I posted above was titledThe OpenAI Keynoteand the occasion was the company’s first-ever “DevDay”. DevDay 2023 was ahugedeal, with days of anticipation and preview articles, and tons of coverage and discussion afterwards.That little segment on Techmeme, meanwhile, is the only vestige of yesterday’s DevDay 2024. There isn’t even a keynote stream available ofthe closed event! The OpenAI of 2023, which seemed to bestride the world, has completely disappeared.OpenAI’s Wrenching TransitionBefore I descend completely into parody — look at the writer quoting himself and over-indexing on the metaphysics of a keynote! — let me quotethat TechCrunch articleto get the details of the announcements:As OpenAI undergoes yet another C-suite overhaul – a reminder of the turmoil following last year’s DevDay – the company is trying to convince developers that it still offers the best platform to build AI apps on…One of OpenAI’s new features, dubbed the Realtime API, will give developers the chance to build nearly real-time, speech-to-speech experiences in their apps, with the choice of using six voices provided by OpenAI. These voices are distinct from those offered for ChatGPT, and developers can’t use third party voices, in order to prevent copyright issues…OpenAI also introduced vision fine-tuning in its API, which will let developers use images, as well as text, to fine-tune their applications of GPT-4o…Lastly, OpenAI is offering a model distillation feature to let developers use larger AI models, such as o1-preview and GPT-4o, to fine-tune smaller models such as GPT-4o mini. Running smaller models generally provides cost savings compared to running larger ones, but this feature should let developers improve the performance of those small AI models. As part of model distillation, OpenAI is launching a beta evaluation tool so developers can measure their fine-tune’s performance within OpenAI’s API.DevDay may make bigger waves for what it didn’t announce. For instance, there wasn’t any news about the GPT Store announced during last year’s DevDay. Last we’ve heard, OpenAI has been piloting a revenue share program with some of the most popular creators of GPTs, but the company hasn’t shared much since then. Also, OpenAI says it’s not releasing any new AI models during DevDay this year. Developers waiting for OpenAI o1 (not the preview or mini version) or the startup’s video generation model, Sora, will have to wait a little longer.These are all fine updates but they don’t, in OpenAI’s defense, really amount to a hype-worthy event. That, though, makes it a bit odd that the company announcedo1onlya couple of weeks ago; that was a hype-worthy announcement that could have waited two weeks, which suggests that keeping things low-key was very much an explicit choice.And, of course, that’s understandable given what else happened last November: it was only two weeks after DevDay 2023 that Altman was temporarily deposed as OpenAI’s CEO, and as the opening of this excerpt references, many of the OpenAI headlines over the last 11 months have been about the steady exodus of major players in that drama, even as Altman consolidates control. In retrospect, the critical moment was the November before that, with the release of ChatGPT and it’s unexpected success. From theWall Street journal:In less than two years, OpenAI has gone from a little-known nonprofit lab working on obscure technology to a world-famous business whose chief executive is the face of the artificial-intelligence revolution. That change is tearing the company apart.On Wednesday, OpenAI’s chief technology officer became the latest high-profile executive to announce an exit, departing as the company prepares to become a for-profit corporation. The exits are public eruptions of tensions that have been growing in the company behind ChatGPT since CEO Sam Altman returned following his brief ouster last year. Some tensions are related to conflicts between OpenAI’s original mission to develop AI for the public good and new initiatives to deploy moneymaking products. Others relate to chaos and infighting among executives worthy of a soap opera. CTO Mira Murati is one of more than 20 OpenAI researchers and executives who have quit this year, including several co-founders.In March 2023 I called OpenAIThe Accidental Consumer Tech Company:Last November, OpenAI was an excitingfat startupmaking an audacious bet on an AI future (albeit witha very unconventional structure). The most obvious business model for the research-focused company was the OpenAI API, access to which was sold on a usage basis.Then came ChatGPT. Within a matter of weeks ChatGPT had over 100 million users, marking the fastest growth of a consumer app ever, and by all accountsit’s still growing rapidly; OpenAI, whether they intended to or not, suddenly found itself a consumer tech company.I argued in that Update that OpenAI needed to respond to this unexpected opportunity by overhauling its entire business:In this world, what exactly is the point of having an API that is completely disconnected from the consumer user experience, and which implies support and backwards compatibility for a usage-based consumption model that actually makes your core product worse (by using up GPUs)? That’s why I wasn’t surprised when OpenAIkilled support for the Codex API; after an outcry CEO Sam Altmansaid that OpenAI would preserve the API for researchers, which I guess is in line with whatever remains of OpenAI’s mission.However, from a cold-blooded business analysis perspective, OpenAI didn’t go far enough: yes, the company has had an API for a long time, and once thought it was its business model; ChatGPT, though, made it a consumer tech company, and the next step after accepting that reality is making the hard business decisions that entails — including not wasting precious time and resources, including GPU capacity — on maintaining APIs that other companies depend on.It seems clear in retrospect that I made the exact sort of mistakeI wrote about last week: I was being very analytical about the entire thing, and completely discounting the challenges that come from enacting these sorts of wrenching changes. And yet, the financial evidence is that my prescription was correct; from theNew York Times:OpenAI’s monthly revenue hit $300 million in August, up 1,700 percent since the beginning of 2023, and the company expects about $3.7 billion in annual sales this year, according to financial documents reviewed by The New York Times. OpenAI estimates that its revenue will balloon to $11.6 billion next year…Most of that has come from the continuing popularity of ChatGPT, which was released in November 2022. The documents show a spike in growth after ChatGPT began allowing people to use the service without creating an account or logging in. The company expects ChatGPT to bring in $2.7 billion in revenue this year, up from $700 million in 2023, with $1 billion coming from other businesses using its technology.Roughly 10 million ChatGPT users pay the company a $20 monthly fee, according to the documents. OpenAI expects to raise that price by $2 by the end of the year, and will aggressively raise it to $44 over the next five years, the documents said. More than one million third-party developers use OpenAI’s technology to power their own services. OpenAI predicts its revenue will hit $100 billion in 2029, which would roughly match the current annual sales of Nestlé or Target.This news is all in the context of OpenAI’s reportedly imminent fundraising that will value the company at $150 billion and start the shift to a for-profit structure. That’s not a crazy number given these revenue figures. To take Facebook as an example, the company was valued at $15 billion on around $150 million in revenue in 2007 (a 100x revenue multiple), two-and-a-half years after launching (to take an analogous timeframe to the ChatGPT launch). Facebook reached $4 billion in revenue four years later, when it was valued in private markets at around $100 billion (a 25x revenue multiple). OpenAI’s proposed valuation is a 40x multiple on this year’s revenue and a 13x multiple on next year’s forecasted revenue.Of course this isn’t an entirely fair comparison, given that I’m only counting the time since the launch of ChatGPT; OpenAI was actually foundedin December 2015. That distinction, though, is kind of my point: the company that was founded nine years ago is a research non-profit that is — appropriately, I argued in that piece one-and-a-half years ago — dying to make way for a consumer tech company whose most valuable asset is not its models but rather the brand ChatGPT. Indeed, you could make the case that the true upside for investors in this raise would be OpenAI abandoning the model-building business completely and slapping the ChatGPT brand on top of models from other entities (this would obviously be a much more asset-light approach that would further validate comparisons to a company like late 2000’s Facebook).I don’t, for the record, think that will happen, or even should; a big part of the upside for investors is the tantalizing allure of true artificial general intelligence (AGI), and beyond that, artificial super intelligence (ASI). At the same time, the fact I could even make this argument speaks to what a wrenching change OpenAI has gone through because of the unexpected success of ChatGPT. If anything, you could further make the case that all of the OpenAI drama is actually a discount to the true value of ChatGPT.Lonely At the TopApple, meanwhile, after being rumored to be a part of this fundraise, is now out, according to theWall Street Journal. I’m not surprised the iPhone maker is getting cold feet;I was convinced Apple would partner with Google, both because Google would have the infrastructure to support Apple’s massive userbase, and also because Apple and Google had a long-running partnership with search. It seemed like the safer option, and that’s even before you get to OpenAI’s internal instability.I do wonder if Apple is wondering if it made a mistake, and part of this decision is about not throwing good money after bad partnership announcements; they can take solace in the fact that they aren’t in as deep in Microsoft, which has beencasting aboutfor hedges, while drastically shifting its messaging about model differentiation. We are coming up on the one-year anniversary ofMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella spending an entire earnings callbragging about the advantages Microsoft had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models, and how that gave the company a long-term cost advantage. Fast forward tolast month’s Copilot Wave 2 announcement, and Nadella emphasized in his prepared remarks that “the models themselves become more of a commodity”; I can’t over-emphasize what a complete turnaround this is from the company’s strategy a year prior, and I expect we’ll see more and more evidence of Microsoft seeking to reduce its OpenAI dependencies over the coming months.And, to take this all full circle, that may be good for OpenAI. Consumer tech companies are the top of the stack in more ways than one: on the product side they are where customers go, and when it comes to their value chain they naturally end up in positions where other companies service them, not the other way around. It’s the highest prize in tech, but it’s a long and difficult journey to get there. And, when you reach the top, it’s pretty lonely; OpenAI and Altman are just speed-running the lonely part.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email On last week’sSharp China, Bill and Andrew broke down China’s new stimulus measures, even as a top economist disappeared for criticizing the country’s economic policy. Then, over the weekend,Greatest of All Talkbroke down the Knicks-Timberwolves trade as the NBA season starts to ramp up. In 2013, when I started Stratechery, there was no bigger event than the launch of the new iPhone; its only rival was Google I/O, which is when the newest version of Android was unveiled (hardware always breaks the tie, including with Apple’s iOS introductions at WWDC). It wasn’t just that smartphones were relatively new and still adding critical features, but that the strategic decisions and ultimate fates of the platforms were still an open question. More than that, the entire future of the tech industry was clearly tied up in said platforms and their corresponding operating systems and devices; how could keynotes not be a big deal? Fast forward a decade and the tech keynote has diminished in importance and, in the case of Apple, disappeared completely, replaced by a pre-recorded marketing video. I want to be mad about it, but it makes sense: an iPhone introduction has been diminished not by Apple’s presentation, but rather Apple’s presentations reflect the reality that the most important questions around an iPhone are about marketing tactics. How do you segment the iPhone line? How do you price? What sort of brand affinity are you seeking to build? There, I just summarizedthe iPhone 15 introduction, and the reality that the smartphone era —The End of the Beginning— is over as far as strategic considerations are concerned. iOS and Android are a given, but what is next and yet unknown? The answer is, clearly, AI… and nothing [matches] the energy around yesterday’s OpenAI developer conference, their first ever: there is nothing more interesting in tech than a consumer product with product-market fit. And that, for me, is enough to bring back an old Stratechery standby: the keynote day-after. This was, first and foremost, a really good keynote, in the keynote-as-artifact sense. CEO Sam Altman, in a humorous exchange with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, promised, “I won’t take too much of your time”; never mind that Nadella was presumably in San Francisco just for this event: in this case he stood in for the audience who witnessed a presentation that was tight, with content that was interesting, leaving them with a desire to learn more. Altman himself had a good stage presence, with the sort of nervous energy that is only present in a live keynote; the fact he never seemed to know which side of the stage a fellow presenter was coming from was humanizing. Meanwhile, the live demos not only went off without a hitch, but leveraged the fact that they were live: in one instance a presenter instructed a GPT she created to text Altman; he held up his phone to show he got the message. In another a GPT randomly selected five members of the audience to receive $500 in OpenAI API credits, only to then extend it to everyone. New products and features, meanwhile, were available “today”, not weeks or months in the future, as is increasingly the case for events like I/O or WWDC; everything combined to give a palpable sense of progress and excitement, which, when it comes to AI, is mostly true. There are actually two more news items about the keynote, but they didn’t fit on my screen; no surprise, though, big events from important companies always dominate the news cycle. Meanwhile, here is a screenshot of Techmeme from yesterday at the same time: I’m not here to talk about Microsoft directly, and certainly don’t really care about a new iPad mini or iPhone SE without a button (to paraphraseJim Barksdale, there are only two ways to innovate: add a button and remove a button!). Rather, the point — metapoint, really — is this item much further down the page that doesn’t even make it into the above screenshot: That long introduction I posted above was titledThe OpenAI Keynoteand the occasion was the company’s first-ever “DevDay”. DevDay 2023 was ahugedeal, with days of anticipation and preview articles, and tons of coverage and discussion afterwards. That little segment on Techmeme, meanwhile, is the only vestige of yesterday’s DevDay 2024. There isn’t even a keynote stream available ofthe closed event! The OpenAI of 2023, which seemed to bestride the world, has completely disappeared. Before I descend completely into parody — look at the writer quoting himself and over-indexing on the metaphysics of a keynote! — let me quotethat TechCrunch articleto get the details of the announcements: As OpenAI undergoes yet another C-suite overhaul – a reminder of the turmoil following last year’s DevDay – the company is trying to convince developers that it still offers the best platform to build AI apps on…One of OpenAI’s new features, dubbed the Realtime API, will give developers the chance to build nearly real-time, speech-to-speech experiences in their apps, with the choice of using six voices provided by OpenAI. These voices are distinct from those offered for ChatGPT, and developers can’t use third party voices, in order to prevent copyright issues…OpenAI also introduced vision fine-tuning in its API, which will let developers use images, as well as text, to fine-tune their applications of GPT-4o…Lastly, OpenAI is offering a model distillation feature to let developers use larger AI models, such as o1-preview and GPT-4o, to fine-tune smaller models such as GPT-4o mini. Running smaller models generally provides cost savings compared to running larger ones, but this feature should let developers improve the performance of those small AI models. As part of model distillation, OpenAI is launching a beta evaluation tool so developers can measure their fine-tune’s performance within OpenAI’s API. DevDay may make bigger waves for what it didn’t announce. For instance, there wasn’t any news about the GPT Store announced during last year’s DevDay. Last we’ve heard, OpenAI has been piloting a revenue share program with some of the most popular creators of GPTs, but the company hasn’t shared much since then. Also, OpenAI says it’s not releasing any new AI models during DevDay this year. Developers waiting for OpenAI o1 (not the preview or mini version) or the startup’s video generation model, Sora, will have to wait a little longer. These are all fine updates but they don’t, in OpenAI’s defense, really amount to a hype-worthy event. That, though, makes it a bit odd that the company announcedo1onlya couple of weeks ago; that was a hype-worthy announcement that could have waited two weeks, which suggests that keeping things low-key was very much an explicit choice. And, of course, that’s understandable given what else happened last November: it was only two weeks after DevDay 2023 that Altman was temporarily deposed as OpenAI’s CEO, and as the opening of this excerpt references, many of the OpenAI headlines over the last 11 months have been about the steady exodus of major players in that drama, even as Altman consolidates control. In retrospect, the critical moment was the November before that, with the release of ChatGPT and it’s unexpected success. From theWall Street journal: In less than two years, OpenAI has gone from a little-known nonprofit lab working on obscure technology to a world-famous business whose chief executive is the face of the artificial-intelligence revolution. That change is tearing the company apart. On Wednesday, OpenAI’s chief technology officer became the latest high-profile executive to announce an exit, departing as the company prepares to become a for-profit corporation. The exits are public eruptions of tensions that have been growing in the company behind ChatGPT since CEO Sam Altman returned following his brief ouster last year. Some tensions are related to conflicts between OpenAI’s original mission to develop AI for the public good and new initiatives to deploy moneymaking products. Others relate to chaos and infighting among executives worthy of a soap opera. CTO Mira Murati is one of more than 20 OpenAI researchers and executives who have quit this year, including several co-founders. Last November, OpenAI was an excitingfat startupmaking an audacious bet on an AI future (albeit witha very unconventional structure). The most obvious business model for the research-focused company was the OpenAI API, access to which was sold on a usage basis. Then came ChatGPT. Within a matter of weeks ChatGPT had over 100 million users, marking the fastest growth of a consumer app ever, and by all accountsit’s still growing rapidly; OpenAI, whether they intended to or not, suddenly found itself a consumer tech company. In this world, what exactly is the point of having an API that is completely disconnected from the consumer user experience, and which implies support and backwards compatibility for a usage-based consumption model that actually makes your core product worse (by using up GPUs)? That’s why I wasn’t surprised when OpenAIkilled support for the Codex API; after an outcry CEO Sam Altmansaid that OpenAI would preserve the API for researchers, which I guess is in line with whatever remains of OpenAI’s mission. However, from a cold-blooded business analysis perspective, OpenAI didn’t go far enough: yes, the company has had an API for a long time, and once thought it was its business model; ChatGPT, though, made it a consumer tech company, and the next step after accepting that reality is making the hard business decisions that entails — including not wasting precious time and resources, including GPU capacity — on maintaining APIs that other companies depend on. It seems clear in retrospect that I made the exact sort of mistakeI wrote about last week: I was being very analytical about the entire thing, and completely discounting the challenges that come from enacting these sorts of wrenching changes. And yet, the financial evidence is that my prescription was correct; from theNew York Times: OpenAI’s monthly revenue hit $300 million in August, up 1,700 percent since the beginning of 2023, and the company expects about $3.7 billion in annual sales this year, according to financial documents reviewed by The New York Times. OpenAI estimates that its revenue will balloon to $11.6 billion next year…Most of that has come from the continuing popularity of ChatGPT, which was released in November 2022. The documents show a spike in growth after ChatGPT began allowing people to use the service without creating an account or logging in. The company expects ChatGPT to bring in $2.7 billion in revenue this year, up from $700 million in 2023, with $1 billion coming from other businesses using its technology. Roughly 10 million ChatGPT users pay the company a $20 monthly fee, according to the documents. OpenAI expects to raise that price by $2 by the end of the year, and will aggressively raise it to $44 over the next five years, the documents said. More than one million third-party developers use OpenAI’s technology to power their own services. OpenAI predicts its revenue will hit $100 billion in 2029, which would roughly match the current annual sales of Nestlé or Target. This news is all in the context of OpenAI’s reportedly imminent fundraising that will value the company at $150 billion and start the shift to a for-profit structure. That’s not a crazy number given these revenue figures. To take Facebook as an example, the company was valued at $15 billion on around $150 million in revenue in 2007 (a 100x revenue multiple), two-and-a-half years after launching (to take an analogous timeframe to the ChatGPT launch). Facebook reached $4 billion in revenue four years later, when it was valued in private markets at around $100 billion (a 25x revenue multiple). OpenAI’s proposed valuation is a 40x multiple on this year’s revenue and a 13x multiple on next year’s forecasted revenue. Of course this isn’t an entirely fair comparison, given that I’m only counting the time since the launch of ChatGPT; OpenAI was actually foundedin December 2015. That distinction, though, is kind of my point: the company that was founded nine years ago is a research non-profit that is — appropriately, I argued in that piece one-and-a-half years ago — dying to make way for a consumer tech company whose most valuable asset is not its models but rather the brand ChatGPT. Indeed, you could make the case that the true upside for investors in this raise would be OpenAI abandoning the model-building business completely and slapping the ChatGPT brand on top of models from other entities (this would obviously be a much more asset-light approach that would further validate comparisons to a company like late 2000’s Facebook). I don’t, for the record, think that will happen, or even should; a big part of the upside for investors is the tantalizing allure of true artificial general intelligence (AGI), and beyond that, artificial super intelligence (ASI). At the same time, the fact I could even make this argument speaks to what a wrenching change OpenAI has gone through because of the unexpected success of ChatGPT. If anything, you could further make the case that all of the OpenAI drama is actually a discount to the true value of ChatGPT. Apple, meanwhile, after being rumored to be a part of this fundraise, is now out, according to theWall Street Journal. I’m not surprised the iPhone maker is getting cold feet;I was convinced Apple would partner with Google, both because Google would have the infrastructure to support Apple’s massive userbase, and also because Apple and Google had a long-running partnership with search. It seemed like the safer option, and that’s even before you get to OpenAI’s internal instability. I do wonder if Apple is wondering if it made a mistake, and part of this decision is about not throwing good money after bad partnership announcements; they can take solace in the fact that they aren’t in as deep in Microsoft, which has beencasting aboutfor hedges, while drastically shifting its messaging about model differentiation. We are coming up on the one-year anniversary ofMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella spending an entire earnings callbragging about the advantages Microsoft had from being fully integrated with OpenAI’s models, and how that gave the company a long-term cost advantage. Fast forward tolast month’s Copilot Wave 2 announcement, and Nadella emphasized in his prepared remarks that “the models themselves become more of a commodity”; I can’t over-emphasize what a complete turnaround this is from the company’s strategy a year prior, and I expect we’ll see more and more evidence of Microsoft seeking to reduce its OpenAI dependencies over the coming months. And, to take this all full circle, that may be good for OpenAI. Consumer tech companies are the top of the stack in more ways than one: on the product side they are where customers go, and when it comes to their value chain they naturally end up in positions where other companies service them, not the other way around. It’s the highest prize in tech, but it’s a long and difficult journey to get there. And, when you reach the top, it’s pretty lonely; OpenAI and Altman are just speed-running the lonely part. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025