# [PODCAST] ChatGPT Pro, o1 Pro, Sora

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/chatgpt-pro-o1-pro-sora/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L2NoYXRncHQtcHJvLW8xLXByby1zb3JhLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzYxMTY5MTE3LCJpYXQiOjE3NTg1NzcxMTcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBwLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIHBvZGNhc3QgcnNzIiwic3ViIjoiYzBlZGQ0YzItZTI3My00N2IxLWFjYmUtNTBhZTlmMTM4NTE4IiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.Th86yuDCDSi78f86Y7vAJpz4SCo8btBWoij4lyjLpvt8vBAjSMc41vaMmo8X3AOTqhDikNbYPELGUsSiZqYfI2l3gDu5a9tMmpwXbxEmLPPuv2l9nQCV127xAu7Nr57NpwCj8LcBaNxG52oHZQP0VGii7A7tjEV6YQnCMT7kkziqtnfDdPAWXly_VR6JJab6UjTb1pph3C_ZKYlPAeEyNMjb-v-xdHPdkciOI_TWclas5DB4cFujhoFEtigcIuD8k6l_EJWQabJiB3JlWe8R6-KDqgVJZmdXCkGc8SPbKEtYRTTQHv_ilJydoNcjy0bNwgB26eLZI2ZraSVM2MaC4Q
**Atlas ID**: 229652
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.923999

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirChatGPT Pro, o1 Pro, SoraTuesday, December 10, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, I expounded onThe Gen AI Bridge to the Future, and frankly, I think I did a much better job of explaining myself. Today we have wearables that are looking for a use case; in the future we will have self-driving computers that will make wearables an obvious way to compute, just as the Internet made a smartphone obvious for everyone, and just as interactive applications drove demand for PCs. The use case comes first.On to the Update:ChatGPT ProFromBloomberg:OpenAI is introducing a higher-priced paid tier for its chatbot ChatGPT that includes unlimited access to its most powerful artificial intelligence models, including an improved version of its software that can perform human-like reasoning tasks. The new ChatGPT Pro option, announced in a livestreamed event on Thursday, will cost $200 a month and offer access to an expanded version of o1, its reasoning model. OpenAI previously introduced a preview of the model in September, but the company said the new version is faster and better at solving competitive math and code problems.Like other AI companies, OpenAI has been working to convince customers and businesses to pay for its software and help offset the high costs of building cutting-edge artificial intelligence models. OpenAI also offers a ChatGPT Plus subscription for $20 a month, a tenth of the cost of the new option…The announcement kicked off what OpenAI said will be 12 days of livestreamed product events. In a post on X Wednesday, OpenAI said it’s planning “a bunch of new things, big and small.”We are only three days in, and it will be interesting to see what else OpenAI announces by the time the 12th day rolls around. New pricing, however, is right up my alley, so I’m ready to jump in right now. Here is what OpenAI wrote intheir blog post:As AI becomes more advanced, it will solve increasingly complex and critical problems. It also takes significantly more compute to power these capabilities.Today, we’re adding ChatGPT Pro, a $200 monthly plan that enables scaled access to the best of OpenAI’s models and tools. This plan includes unlimited access to our smartest model, OpenAI o1, as well as to o1-mini, GPT-4o, and Advanced Voice. It also includes o1 pro mode, a version of o1 that uses more compute to think harder and provide even better answers to the hardest problems. In the future, we expect to add more powerful, compute-intensive productivity features to this plan.ChatGPT Pro provides a way for researchers, engineers, and other individuals who use research-grade intelligence daily to accelerate their productivity and be at the cutting edge of advancements in AI.There are a few different ways to look at this announcement. First, from a pure value capture perspective, I personally think that generative AI models are easily worth $200/month to me personally. Notice, however, the generic: for my specific use cases, which mostly entails researching and diving deep on things like CISC vs RISC instruction sets foryesterday’s Article, any of the top models would likely suffice, particularly given I’m still in the habit of verifying everything I write elsewhere. To invoke Porter’s Five Forces, there is significant industry rivalry,  which limits OpenAI’s pricing power.I do, for the record, use ChatGPT more than Claude; the biggest factor is the vastly superior ChatGPT Mac app. John Gruber noted atDaring Fireball:There’s much talk that Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 has pulled ahead of OpenAI’s ChatGPT 4o in terms of chatbot “intelligence”, but as an overall experience ChatGPT wins hands-down. For one thing ChatGPT has been able to search the web for answers for a while now, and it works great. For another, just today OpenAI launched ChatGPT’s dedicated “search” mode. Claude has nothing like it.But even their respective Mac apps are a stark contrast. The Claude app is a lazy Electron port. Right off the bat, the email field on the login screen doesn’t support autofill. Once you’re logged in, you don’t get any standard MacOS features. And of course because it’s Electron it’s bloated architecturally and uses a lot of memory. If you really want to use Claude as an “app” on your Mac you’d be better off saving a web app with Safari (File → Add to Dock…) than using this.ChatGPT’s native Mac app, on the other hand, is a truly native Mac app. It looks like a Mac app and feels like a Mac app because it really is a Mac app. I’ve liked it ever since it launched back in May, and it keeps getting better. And I keep using it more and more as my go-to resource for answering questions.Look, I get that this may seem silly to some; it’s like preferring to talk to someone slightly more dumb because they have better table manners and appearance. Isn’t the point the intelligence, and isn’t Claude better? I mean, maybe, but for me AI is a tool, and part of the usefulness of a tool is its ergonomics, and ChatGPT is just flat-out better; I want to use it because it’s nice to use, and I can’t say the same for Claude. Yes, this is a very “consumery” take, but, well, this is part of how OpenAI pushes its massive lead in consumer mindshare!There are more benefits to being a real Mac app than just look-and-feel; fromTechCrunch:OpenAI’s ChatGPT is starting to work with other apps on your computer. On Thursday, the startup announced the ChatGPT desktop app for macOS can now read code in a handful of developer-focused coding apps, such as VS Code, Xcode, TextEdit, Terminal, and iTerm2. That means developers will no longer have to copy and paste their code into ChatGPT, which has become a common way to use the chatbot. Now when the feature is enabled, OpenAI will automatically send the section of code you’re working on through its chatbot as context, alongside your prompt. However, unlike popular AI coding tools such as Cursor or GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT is currently unable to write code directly into developer apps on your behalf.The feature, called Work with Apps, is far from an AI agent, but OpenAI says getting ChatGPT to understand other apps is a “key building block” toward building agentic systems. One of the biggest challenges facing AI agents today is getting them to understand the rest of your computer screen, as opposed to prompts or their own responses. OpenAI says it’s focusing this feature on coding apps to start; this is likely because AI coding assistants have taken off as one of the most popular use cases for LLMs. The feature is available to Plus and Teams users today and will roll out to Enterprise and Edu in the next few weeks. OpenAI says ChatGPT will be able to work with other types of apps moving forward, specifically text-based apps that could be used for writing tasks.An electron app could use the same accessibility APIs that ChatGPT is leveraging to read apps, but the work would be more complex, and frankly, seems unlikely given the low level of effort present in the app itself. What is nice for me is that the list of supported apps now includes BBEdit, which I use to write; now I can simply ask ChatGPT questions about something I have written without any copy-and-pasting; it has the full context of the Article.Anyhow, is the quality of the ChatGPT Mac app worth a $180/month premium to Claude? Well, for most people certainly not, but it’s definitely worth a fair bit to me! But hey, it’s a moot point: the Mac app isn’t a Pro feature, or even a Plus feature (although “Work with Apps” is); it is, however, a reason to commit to a particular model, and who knows, maybe the unlimited usage will mean I choose the ChatGPT $200 option instead of a similar Pro level from an alternative.o1 ProIt’so1where things get more interesting. I’m going to extensively quotewhat I wrotewheno1-previewwas released in September as its all pertinent (I’ll insert my comments along the way). To start out with, I showedo1-previewsolving a New York Time Saturday Crossword Mini (which is larger than the usual Daily Mini, which Claude Sonnet 3.5 and ChatGPT 4o could sometimes get right — they always failed on the Saturday version though):I do have to come clean: it actually tooko1two tries to complete the crossword puzzle…I don’t know for sure, but my guess is that the model simply ran out of tokens. Remember, OpenAI isn’t revealing the intervening “reasoning tokens” where all of this iteration and testing is taking place, but they do exist; theAPI docsstate thato1-previewhas a maximum number of 32,768 output tokens, including reasoning tokens. My suspicion is that I hit this limit the first time; the second run (in a fresh session) only “thought” for 111 seconds (if you compare the summary of the thinking ofthe successful runto thefailed runyou will notice that the former arrived at the correct answer to a few key clues more quickly than the latter, speaking to the importance of path dependence).This is a limit that I presume can be expanded over time…Indeed it can: I dumped today’s full New York Times Crossword intoo1-pro(which now accepts images) and it took it like a champ, spending 3 minutes and 31 seconds solving it…fairly well; it got 51 of the 76 clues correct, but definitely lost track of the puzzle shape fairly egregiously for a few of them. Still, I’m impressed, both by the relative success, and also by both the sheer amount of information processed and the speed with which it was done. The limit has expanded!…which brings me back to the image above (which comes fromOpenAI’s announcement page):There has been a lot of talk about the importance of scale in terms of LLM performance; for auto-regressive LLMs that has meant training scale. The more parameters you have, the larger the infrastructure you need, but the payoff is greater accuracy because the model is incorporating that much more information. That certainly still applies too1, as the chart on the left indicates.It’s the chart on the right that is the bigger deal:o1gets more accurate the more time it spends on computeat inference time. This makes sense intuitively given what I laid out above: the more time spent on compute the more timeo1can spend spinning up multiple chains-of-thought, checking its answers, and iterating through different approaches and solutions.Here’s the thing: compute is expensive, both in terms of marginal costs (primarily electricity), and also in terms of opportunity costs (the GPUs used for thinking can’t be used by other paying customers, which means their depreciation costs are spread over fewer queries). This is another angle to think about ChatGPT Pro pricing: if you want access to models that require significantly more compute capacity, you’re going to have to pay for it.It’s also a big departure from how we have thought about LLMs to date: one of the “benefits” of auto-regressive LLMs is that you’re only generating one answer in a serial manner. Yes, you can get that answer faster with beefier hardware, but that is another way of saying that the pay-off from more inference compute is getting the answer faster; the accuracy of the answer is a function of the underlying model, not the amount of compute brought to bear. Another way to think about it is that the more important question for inference is how much memory is available; the more memory there is, the larger the model, and therefore, the greater amount of accuracy.In thiso1represents a new inference paradigm: yes, you need memory to load the model, but given the same model, answer quality does improve with more compute. The way that I am thinking about it is that more compute is kind of like having more branch predictors, which mean more registers, which require more cache, etc.; this isn’t a perfect analogy, but it is interesting to think about inference compute as being a sort of dynamic memory architecture for LLMs that lets them explore latent space for the best answer.To that end, it’s hardly a surprise thato1API pricing is dramatically more expensive than 4o:1M input tokens1M output tokensGPT-4o$5.00$15.00GPT-4o mini$0.15$0.60o1-preview$15.00$60.00o1-mini$3.00$12.00This pricing probably understates the delta, given thato1is going to use more tokens to generate an answer. Moreover, 4o remains the better choice for a lot of use cases that don’t require logic, above-and-beyond being a lot cheaper.o1-prois only available in ChatGPT to start, so we don’t have API pricing yet, but I’m sure it’s even more expensive; it’s also slower, which makes it worse for many use cases (like most of mine). What is interesting, however, is that API pricing is fairly straightforward in terms of OpenAI’s costs; it’s basically a cost-plus model. What is tricky about ChatGPT Pro pricing is that OpenAI does need to take care that its promise of (near) unlimited model access fits within a single monthly price. That is a bias for a higher price rather than a lower one, which is fine:o1is highly differentiated, i.e. it has low substitutability, if you find a use for it outside of solving crossword puzzles.There’s another way in which this pricing is symbolic, though: auto-regressive LLMs already make a lot of sense as an assistant (“help me write this letter”); the promise of something likeo1is that it actually can function as an agent, with the ability to do work — work that has been done before, to be clear — without the in-depth level of supervision required by LLMs. That’s worth a lot more money!Here is the challenge with ChatGPT specifically: a chat app — even one that comes packaged in a great app — is much more like an assistant than an agent. Yes, you can giveo1something to solve, do something else, and it will send you a notification when it’s done, but there is a lot more scaffolding necessary to build an agent. Which is fine: that $200/month price would actually be much too low if it were trivial to leverageo1autonomously, but at the same time, it’s not clear how many use cases require a slow and expensive thinking assistant instead of a cheap and fast one whose first answer is good enough.In short, I remain optimistic abouto1and scaling compute at inference time; I do question the extent to which ChatGPT will end up being the best way to fully leverage its capabilities, but that’s fine: that’s why the Plus level exists, and is priced competitively with alternatives like Claude.SoraYesterday’s big announcement is that Sora, OpenAI’s video generation model, is now publicly available to Plus and Pro users. FromOpenAI’s post:Our video generation model is rolling out atsora.com.Earlier this year, we introduced Sora, our model that can create realistic videos from text, and shared our initial research progress⁠ on world simulation. Sora serves as a foundation for AI that understands and simulates reality—an important step towards developing models that can interact with the physical world.We developed a new version of Sora — Sora Turbo — that is significantly faster than the model we previewed in February. We’re releasing it today as a standalone product at Sora.com to ChatGPT Plus and Pro users.I didn’t actually get to try Sora, because they turned off new account creation due to overwhelming demand; I did enjoy MKBHD’sYouTube review. There are three things that stood out to me:First, the amount of work that went into the Sora interface seems very impressive to me. This is another example of OpenAI’s product capabilities, which seem far ahead of any of their competitors.Second, here we are, two days after the announcement of ChatGPT Pro, with a new justification for that higher price: more videos (500 per month versus 50) and at higher resolution (up to 1080p versus up to 720p). That’s a pretty big delta!Third, MKBHD’s number one complaint wasweak object permanence. Sora just sort of forgets where certain objects are, like legs, or a smartphone in a tech reviewer’s hand that appears and disappears.This last one ties back into theo1discussion above. What I get from these videos is the sense that the current version of Sora is a bit like regular LLMs, in that it seems to generate its best attempt at a video in a single shot; in this case the lack of object permanence is basically akin to a hallucination. What likely seems necessary is a recursive approach to video generation that checks previous and following frames to make sure everything makes sense, just likeo1uses chain of thought to revisit its proposed answer and make changes until it gets it right.In other words, what seems necessary is more inference time compute, which raises the question: how long until there is a ChatGPT subscription for $2,000/month? That might seem crazy, until you remember thatyou’re generating video at zero marginal cost to yourself. It’s a tremendous deal — if you use it.That’s the thing, though. Maybe the biggest takeaway from AI to-date is the massive returns that come from agency in terms of leveraging its capability; speaking of MKBHD, I wrote inMKBHDs for Everything:Wall-E erred by assuming that every human was the same, all gleefully enslaved by AUTO, the ship’s AI. In fact, though, I suspect humanity will be distributed bi-modally, with the vast majority of people happily wearing their Vision Pros or watching their streaming service or viewing their TikTok videos, while increasingly sovereign individuals, aided by AI, pilot the ship.That may sound extreme, but again, this is why it is useful to look to media first: Brownlee — one man, who started out by reviewing a media center remote on his HP laptop — does in fact hold the fate of entire companies and products in his hand. My bet is not that AI replaces Brownlee, but that AI means Brownlee’s for everything, not just media.This is probably the easiest way to understand OpenAI’s pricing: yes there are inference costs to cover, but at the end of the day, there is a disparity in how much agency people have to leverage AI; it makes perfect sense to segment pricing in a way that makes more money from people who have the wherewithal to derive that much more benefit.Give Stratechery asa gift!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedSora, Groq, and Virtual RealityDateTuesday, February 20, 2024AI HomeworkDateMonday, December 5, 2022DeepSeek FAQDateMonday, January 27, 2025←Intel’s Death and Potential RevivalGM Kills Cruise, Fleets Versus Autonomy, Robotaxi Outlook→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air ChatGPT Pro, o1 Pro, SoraTuesday, December 10, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, I expounded onThe Gen AI Bridge to the Future, and frankly, I think I did a much better job of explaining myself. Today we have wearables that are looking for a use case; in the future we will have self-driving computers that will make wearables an obvious way to compute, just as the Internet made a smartphone obvious for everyone, and just as interactive applications drove demand for PCs. The use case comes first.On to the Update:ChatGPT ProFromBloomberg:OpenAI is introducing a higher-priced paid tier for its chatbot ChatGPT that includes unlimited access to its most powerful artificial intelligence models, including an improved version of its software that can perform human-like reasoning tasks. The new ChatGPT Pro option, announced in a livestreamed event on Thursday, will cost $200 a month and offer access to an expanded version of o1, its reasoning model. OpenAI previously introduced a preview of the model in September, but the company said the new version is faster and better at solving competitive math and code problems.Like other AI companies, OpenAI has been working to convince customers and businesses to pay for its software and help offset the high costs of building cutting-edge artificial intelligence models. OpenAI also offers a ChatGPT Plus subscription for $20 a month, a tenth of the cost of the new option…The announcement kicked off what OpenAI said will be 12 days of livestreamed product events. In a post on X Wednesday, OpenAI said it’s planning “a bunch of new things, big and small.”We are only three days in, and it will be interesting to see what else OpenAI announces by the time the 12th day rolls around. New pricing, however, is right up my alley, so I’m ready to jump in right now. Here is what OpenAI wrote intheir blog post:As AI becomes more advanced, it will solve increasingly complex and critical problems. It also takes significantly more compute to power these capabilities.Today, we’re adding ChatGPT Pro, a $200 monthly plan that enables scaled access to the best of OpenAI’s models and tools. This plan includes unlimited access to our smartest model, OpenAI o1, as well as to o1-mini, GPT-4o, and Advanced Voice. It also includes o1 pro mode, a version of o1 that uses more compute to think harder and provide even better answers to the hardest problems. In the future, we expect to add more powerful, compute-intensive productivity features to this plan.ChatGPT Pro provides a way for researchers, engineers, and other individuals who use research-grade intelligence daily to accelerate their productivity and be at the cutting edge of advancements in AI.There are a few different ways to look at this announcement. First, from a pure value capture perspective, I personally think that generative AI models are easily worth $200/month to me personally. Notice, however, the generic: for my specific use cases, which mostly entails researching and diving deep on things like CISC vs RISC instruction sets foryesterday’s Article, any of the top models would likely suffice, particularly given I’m still in the habit of verifying everything I write elsewhere. To invoke Porter’s Five Forces, there is significant industry rivalry,  which limits OpenAI’s pricing power.I do, for the record, use ChatGPT more than Claude; the biggest factor is the vastly superior ChatGPT Mac app. John Gruber noted atDaring Fireball:There’s much talk that Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 has pulled ahead of OpenAI’s ChatGPT 4o in terms of chatbot “intelligence”, but as an overall experience ChatGPT wins hands-down. For one thing ChatGPT has been able to search the web for answers for a while now, and it works great. For another, just today OpenAI launched ChatGPT’s dedicated “search” mode. Claude has nothing like it.But even their respective Mac apps are a stark contrast. The Claude app is a lazy Electron port. Right off the bat, the email field on the login screen doesn’t support autofill. Once you’re logged in, you don’t get any standard MacOS features. And of course because it’s Electron it’s bloated architecturally and uses a lot of memory. If you really want to use Claude as an “app” on your Mac you’d be better off saving a web app with Safari (File → Add to Dock…) than using this.ChatGPT’s native Mac app, on the other hand, is a truly native Mac app. It looks like a Mac app and feels like a Mac app because it really is a Mac app. I’ve liked it ever since it launched back in May, and it keeps getting better. And I keep using it more and more as my go-to resource for answering questions.Look, I get that this may seem silly to some; it’s like preferring to talk to someone slightly more dumb because they have better table manners and appearance. Isn’t the point the intelligence, and isn’t Claude better? I mean, maybe, but for me AI is a tool, and part of the usefulness of a tool is its ergonomics, and ChatGPT is just flat-out better; I want to use it because it’s nice to use, and I can’t say the same for Claude. Yes, this is a very “consumery” take, but, well, this is part of how OpenAI pushes its massive lead in consumer mindshare!There are more benefits to being a real Mac app than just look-and-feel; fromTechCrunch:OpenAI’s ChatGPT is starting to work with other apps on your computer. On Thursday, the startup announced the ChatGPT desktop app for macOS can now read code in a handful of developer-focused coding apps, such as VS Code, Xcode, TextEdit, Terminal, and iTerm2. That means developers will no longer have to copy and paste their code into ChatGPT, which has become a common way to use the chatbot. Now when the feature is enabled, OpenAI will automatically send the section of code you’re working on through its chatbot as context, alongside your prompt. However, unlike popular AI coding tools such as Cursor or GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT is currently unable to write code directly into developer apps on your behalf.The feature, called Work with Apps, is far from an AI agent, but OpenAI says getting ChatGPT to understand other apps is a “key building block” toward building agentic systems. One of the biggest challenges facing AI agents today is getting them to understand the rest of your computer screen, as opposed to prompts or their own responses. OpenAI says it’s focusing this feature on coding apps to start; this is likely because AI coding assistants have taken off as one of the most popular use cases for LLMs. The feature is available to Plus and Teams users today and will roll out to Enterprise and Edu in the next few weeks. OpenAI says ChatGPT will be able to work with other types of apps moving forward, specifically text-based apps that could be used for writing tasks.An electron app could use the same accessibility APIs that ChatGPT is leveraging to read apps, but the work would be more complex, and frankly, seems unlikely given the low level of effort present in the app itself. What is nice for me is that the list of supported apps now includes BBEdit, which I use to write; now I can simply ask ChatGPT questions about something I have written without any copy-and-pasting; it has the full context of the Article.Anyhow, is the quality of the ChatGPT Mac app worth a $180/month premium to Claude? Well, for most people certainly not, but it’s definitely worth a fair bit to me! But hey, it’s a moot point: the Mac app isn’t a Pro feature, or even a Plus feature (although “Work with Apps” is); it is, however, a reason to commit to a particular model, and who knows, maybe the unlimited usage will mean I choose the ChatGPT $200 option instead of a similar Pro level from an alternative.o1 ProIt’so1where things get more interesting. I’m going to extensively quotewhat I wrotewheno1-previewwas released in September as its all pertinent (I’ll insert my comments along the way). To start out with, I showedo1-previewsolving a New York Time Saturday Crossword Mini (which is larger than the usual Daily Mini, which Claude Sonnet 3.5 and ChatGPT 4o could sometimes get right — they always failed on the Saturday version though):I do have to come clean: it actually tooko1two tries to complete the crossword puzzle…I don’t know for sure, but my guess is that the model simply ran out of tokens. Remember, OpenAI isn’t revealing the intervening “reasoning tokens” where all of this iteration and testing is taking place, but they do exist; theAPI docsstate thato1-previewhas a maximum number of 32,768 output tokens, including reasoning tokens. My suspicion is that I hit this limit the first time; the second run (in a fresh session) only “thought” for 111 seconds (if you compare the summary of the thinking ofthe successful runto thefailed runyou will notice that the former arrived at the correct answer to a few key clues more quickly than the latter, speaking to the importance of path dependence).This is a limit that I presume can be expanded over time…Indeed it can: I dumped today’s full New York Times Crossword intoo1-pro(which now accepts images) and it took it like a champ, spending 3 minutes and 31 seconds solving it…fairly well; it got 51 of the 76 clues correct, but definitely lost track of the puzzle shape fairly egregiously for a few of them. Still, I’m impressed, both by the relative success, and also by both the sheer amount of information processed and the speed with which it was done. The limit has expanded!…which brings me back to the image above (which comes fromOpenAI’s announcement page):There has been a lot of talk about the importance of scale in terms of LLM performance; for auto-regressive LLMs that has meant training scale. The more parameters you have, the larger the infrastructure you need, but the payoff is greater accuracy because the model is incorporating that much more information. That certainly still applies too1, as the chart on the left indicates.It’s the chart on the right that is the bigger deal:o1gets more accurate the more time it spends on computeat inference time. This makes sense intuitively given what I laid out above: the more time spent on compute the more timeo1can spend spinning up multiple chains-of-thought, checking its answers, and iterating through different approaches and solutions.Here’s the thing: compute is expensive, both in terms of marginal costs (primarily electricity), and also in terms of opportunity costs (the GPUs used for thinking can’t be used by other paying customers, which means their depreciation costs are spread over fewer queries). This is another angle to think about ChatGPT Pro pricing: if you want access to models that require significantly more compute capacity, you’re going to have to pay for it.It’s also a big departure from how we have thought about LLMs to date: one of the “benefits” of auto-regressive LLMs is that you’re only generating one answer in a serial manner. Yes, you can get that answer faster with beefier hardware, but that is another way of saying that the pay-off from more inference compute is getting the answer faster; the accuracy of the answer is a function of the underlying model, not the amount of compute brought to bear. Another way to think about it is that the more important question for inference is how much memory is available; the more memory there is, the larger the model, and therefore, the greater amount of accuracy.In thiso1represents a new inference paradigm: yes, you need memory to load the model, but given the same model, answer quality does improve with more compute. The way that I am thinking about it is that more compute is kind of like having more branch predictors, which mean more registers, which require more cache, etc.; this isn’t a perfect analogy, but it is interesting to think about inference compute as being a sort of dynamic memory architecture for LLMs that lets them explore latent space for the best answer.To that end, it’s hardly a surprise thato1API pricing is dramatically more expensive than 4o:1M input tokens1M output tokensGPT-4o$5.00$15.00GPT-4o mini$0.15$0.60o1-preview$15.00$60.00o1-mini$3.00$12.00This pricing probably understates the delta, given thato1is going to use more tokens to generate an answer. Moreover, 4o remains the better choice for a lot of use cases that don’t require logic, above-and-beyond being a lot cheaper.o1-prois only available in ChatGPT to start, so we don’t have API pricing yet, but I’m sure it’s even more expensive; it’s also slower, which makes it worse for many use cases (like most of mine). What is interesting, however, is that API pricing is fairly straightforward in terms of OpenAI’s costs; it’s basically a cost-plus model. What is tricky about ChatGPT Pro pricing is that OpenAI does need to take care that its promise of (near) unlimited model access fits within a single monthly price. That is a bias for a higher price rather than a lower one, which is fine:o1is highly differentiated, i.e. it has low substitutability, if you find a use for it outside of solving crossword puzzles.There’s another way in which this pricing is symbolic, though: auto-regressive LLMs already make a lot of sense as an assistant (“help me write this letter”); the promise of something likeo1is that it actually can function as an agent, with the ability to do work — work that has been done before, to be clear — without the in-depth level of supervision required by LLMs. That’s worth a lot more money!Here is the challenge with ChatGPT specifically: a chat app — even one that comes packaged in a great app — is much more like an assistant than an agent. Yes, you can giveo1something to solve, do something else, and it will send you a notification when it’s done, but there is a lot more scaffolding necessary to build an agent. Which is fine: that $200/month price would actually be much too low if it were trivial to leverageo1autonomously, but at the same time, it’s not clear how many use cases require a slow and expensive thinking assistant instead of a cheap and fast one whose first answer is good enough.In short, I remain optimistic abouto1and scaling compute at inference time; I do question the extent to which ChatGPT will end up being the best way to fully leverage its capabilities, but that’s fine: that’s why the Plus level exists, and is priced competitively with alternatives like Claude.SoraYesterday’s big announcement is that Sora, OpenAI’s video generation model, is now publicly available to Plus and Pro users. FromOpenAI’s post:Our video generation model is rolling out atsora.com.Earlier this year, we introduced Sora, our model that can create realistic videos from text, and shared our initial research progress⁠ on world simulation. Sora serves as a foundation for AI that understands and simulates reality—an important step towards developing models that can interact with the physical world.We developed a new version of Sora — Sora Turbo — that is significantly faster than the model we previewed in February. We’re releasing it today as a standalone product at Sora.com to ChatGPT Plus and Pro users.I didn’t actually get to try Sora, because they turned off new account creation due to overwhelming demand; I did enjoy MKBHD’sYouTube review. There are three things that stood out to me:First, the amount of work that went into the Sora interface seems very impressive to me. This is another example of OpenAI’s product capabilities, which seem far ahead of any of their competitors.Second, here we are, two days after the announcement of ChatGPT Pro, with a new justification for that higher price: more videos (500 per month versus 50) and at higher resolution (up to 1080p versus up to 720p). That’s a pretty big delta!Third, MKBHD’s number one complaint wasweak object permanence. Sora just sort of forgets where certain objects are, like legs, or a smartphone in a tech reviewer’s hand that appears and disappears.This last one ties back into theo1discussion above. What I get from these videos is the sense that the current version of Sora is a bit like regular LLMs, in that it seems to generate its best attempt at a video in a single shot; in this case the lack of object permanence is basically akin to a hallucination. What likely seems necessary is a recursive approach to video generation that checks previous and following frames to make sure everything makes sense, just likeo1uses chain of thought to revisit its proposed answer and make changes until it gets it right.In other words, what seems necessary is more inference time compute, which raises the question: how long until there is a ChatGPT subscription for $2,000/month? That might seem crazy, until you remember thatyou’re generating video at zero marginal cost to yourself. It’s a tremendous deal — if you use it.That’s the thing, though. Maybe the biggest takeaway from AI to-date is the massive returns that come from agency in terms of leveraging its capability; speaking of MKBHD, I wrote inMKBHDs for Everything:Wall-E erred by assuming that every human was the same, all gleefully enslaved by AUTO, the ship’s AI. In fact, though, I suspect humanity will be distributed bi-modally, with the vast majority of people happily wearing their Vision Pros or watching their streaming service or viewing their TikTok videos, while increasingly sovereign individuals, aided by AI, pilot the ship.That may sound extreme, but again, this is why it is useful to look to media first: Brownlee — one man, who started out by reviewing a media center remote on his HP laptop — does in fact hold the fate of entire companies and products in his hand. My bet is not that AI replaces Brownlee, but that AI means Brownlee’s for everything, not just media.This is probably the easiest way to understand OpenAI’s pricing: yes there are inference costs to cover, but at the end of the day, there is a disparity in how much agency people have to leverage AI; it makes perfect sense to segment pricing in a way that makes more money from people who have the wherewithal to derive that much more benefit.Give Stratechery asa gift!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedSora, Groq, and Virtual RealityDateTuesday, February 20, 2024AI HomeworkDateMonday, December 5, 2022DeepSeek FAQDateMonday, January 27, 2025←Intel’s Death and Potential RevivalGM Kills Cruise, Fleets Versus Autonomy, Robotaxi Outlook→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All ChatGPT Pro, o1 Pro, SoraTuesday, December 10, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, I expounded onThe Gen AI Bridge to the Future, and frankly, I think I did a much better job of explaining myself. Today we have wearables that are looking for a use case; in the future we will have self-driving computers that will make wearables an obvious way to compute, just as the Internet made a smartphone obvious for everyone, and just as interactive applications drove demand for PCs. The use case comes first.On to the Update:ChatGPT ProFromBloomberg:OpenAI is introducing a higher-priced paid tier for its chatbot ChatGPT that includes unlimited access to its most powerful artificial intelligence models, including an improved version of its software that can perform human-like reasoning tasks. The new ChatGPT Pro option, announced in a livestreamed event on Thursday, will cost $200 a month and offer access to an expanded version of o1, its reasoning model. OpenAI previously introduced a preview of the model in September, but the company said the new version is faster and better at solving competitive math and code problems.Like other AI companies, OpenAI has been working to convince customers and businesses to pay for its software and help offset the high costs of building cutting-edge artificial intelligence models. OpenAI also offers a ChatGPT Plus subscription for $20 a month, a tenth of the cost of the new option…The announcement kicked off what OpenAI said will be 12 days of livestreamed product events. In a post on X Wednesday, OpenAI said it’s planning “a bunch of new things, big and small.”We are only three days in, and it will be interesting to see what else OpenAI announces by the time the 12th day rolls around. New pricing, however, is right up my alley, so I’m ready to jump in right now. Here is what OpenAI wrote intheir blog post:As AI becomes more advanced, it will solve increasingly complex and critical problems. It also takes significantly more compute to power these capabilities.Today, we’re adding ChatGPT Pro, a $200 monthly plan that enables scaled access to the best of OpenAI’s models and tools. This plan includes unlimited access to our smartest model, OpenAI o1, as well as to o1-mini, GPT-4o, and Advanced Voice. It also includes o1 pro mode, a version of o1 that uses more compute to think harder and provide even better answers to the hardest problems. In the future, we expect to add more powerful, compute-intensive productivity features to this plan.ChatGPT Pro provides a way for researchers, engineers, and other individuals who use research-grade intelligence daily to accelerate their productivity and be at the cutting edge of advancements in AI.There are a few different ways to look at this announcement. First, from a pure value capture perspective, I personally think that generative AI models are easily worth $200/month to me personally. Notice, however, the generic: for my specific use cases, which mostly entails researching and diving deep on things like CISC vs RISC instruction sets foryesterday’s Article, any of the top models would likely suffice, particularly given I’m still in the habit of verifying everything I write elsewhere. To invoke Porter’s Five Forces, there is significant industry rivalry,  which limits OpenAI’s pricing power.I do, for the record, use ChatGPT more than Claude; the biggest factor is the vastly superior ChatGPT Mac app. John Gruber noted atDaring Fireball:There’s much talk that Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 has pulled ahead of OpenAI’s ChatGPT 4o in terms of chatbot “intelligence”, but as an overall experience ChatGPT wins hands-down. For one thing ChatGPT has been able to search the web for answers for a while now, and it works great. For another, just today OpenAI launched ChatGPT’s dedicated “search” mode. Claude has nothing like it.But even their respective Mac apps are a stark contrast. The Claude app is a lazy Electron port. Right off the bat, the email field on the login screen doesn’t support autofill. Once you’re logged in, you don’t get any standard MacOS features. And of course because it’s Electron it’s bloated architecturally and uses a lot of memory. If you really want to use Claude as an “app” on your Mac you’d be better off saving a web app with Safari (File → Add to Dock…) than using this.ChatGPT’s native Mac app, on the other hand, is a truly native Mac app. It looks like a Mac app and feels like a Mac app because it really is a Mac app. I’ve liked it ever since it launched back in May, and it keeps getting better. And I keep using it more and more as my go-to resource for answering questions.Look, I get that this may seem silly to some; it’s like preferring to talk to someone slightly more dumb because they have better table manners and appearance. Isn’t the point the intelligence, and isn’t Claude better? I mean, maybe, but for me AI is a tool, and part of the usefulness of a tool is its ergonomics, and ChatGPT is just flat-out better; I want to use it because it’s nice to use, and I can’t say the same for Claude. Yes, this is a very “consumery” take, but, well, this is part of how OpenAI pushes its massive lead in consumer mindshare!There are more benefits to being a real Mac app than just look-and-feel; fromTechCrunch:OpenAI’s ChatGPT is starting to work with other apps on your computer. On Thursday, the startup announced the ChatGPT desktop app for macOS can now read code in a handful of developer-focused coding apps, such as VS Code, Xcode, TextEdit, Terminal, and iTerm2. That means developers will no longer have to copy and paste their code into ChatGPT, which has become a common way to use the chatbot. Now when the feature is enabled, OpenAI will automatically send the section of code you’re working on through its chatbot as context, alongside your prompt. However, unlike popular AI coding tools such as Cursor or GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT is currently unable to write code directly into developer apps on your behalf.The feature, called Work with Apps, is far from an AI agent, but OpenAI says getting ChatGPT to understand other apps is a “key building block” toward building agentic systems. One of the biggest challenges facing AI agents today is getting them to understand the rest of your computer screen, as opposed to prompts or their own responses. OpenAI says it’s focusing this feature on coding apps to start; this is likely because AI coding assistants have taken off as one of the most popular use cases for LLMs. The feature is available to Plus and Teams users today and will roll out to Enterprise and Edu in the next few weeks. OpenAI says ChatGPT will be able to work with other types of apps moving forward, specifically text-based apps that could be used for writing tasks.An electron app could use the same accessibility APIs that ChatGPT is leveraging to read apps, but the work would be more complex, and frankly, seems unlikely given the low level of effort present in the app itself. What is nice for me is that the list of supported apps now includes BBEdit, which I use to write; now I can simply ask ChatGPT questions about something I have written without any copy-and-pasting; it has the full context of the Article.Anyhow, is the quality of the ChatGPT Mac app worth a $180/month premium to Claude? Well, for most people certainly not, but it’s definitely worth a fair bit to me! But hey, it’s a moot point: the Mac app isn’t a Pro feature, or even a Plus feature (although “Work with Apps” is); it is, however, a reason to commit to a particular model, and who knows, maybe the unlimited usage will mean I choose the ChatGPT $200 option instead of a similar Pro level from an alternative.o1 ProIt’so1where things get more interesting. I’m going to extensively quotewhat I wrotewheno1-previewwas released in September as its all pertinent (I’ll insert my comments along the way). To start out with, I showedo1-previewsolving a New York Time Saturday Crossword Mini (which is larger than the usual Daily Mini, which Claude Sonnet 3.5 and ChatGPT 4o could sometimes get right — they always failed on the Saturday version though):I do have to come clean: it actually tooko1two tries to complete the crossword puzzle…I don’t know for sure, but my guess is that the model simply ran out of tokens. Remember, OpenAI isn’t revealing the intervening “reasoning tokens” where all of this iteration and testing is taking place, but they do exist; theAPI docsstate thato1-previewhas a maximum number of 32,768 output tokens, including reasoning tokens. My suspicion is that I hit this limit the first time; the second run (in a fresh session) only “thought” for 111 seconds (if you compare the summary of the thinking ofthe successful runto thefailed runyou will notice that the former arrived at the correct answer to a few key clues more quickly than the latter, speaking to the importance of path dependence).This is a limit that I presume can be expanded over time…Indeed it can: I dumped today’s full New York Times Crossword intoo1-pro(which now accepts images) and it took it like a champ, spending 3 minutes and 31 seconds solving it…fairly well; it got 51 of the 76 clues correct, but definitely lost track of the puzzle shape fairly egregiously for a few of them. Still, I’m impressed, both by the relative success, and also by both the sheer amount of information processed and the speed with which it was done. The limit has expanded!…which brings me back to the image above (which comes fromOpenAI’s announcement page):There has been a lot of talk about the importance of scale in terms of LLM performance; for auto-regressive LLMs that has meant training scale. The more parameters you have, the larger the infrastructure you need, but the payoff is greater accuracy because the model is incorporating that much more information. That certainly still applies too1, as the chart on the left indicates.It’s the chart on the right that is the bigger deal:o1gets more accurate the more time it spends on computeat inference time. This makes sense intuitively given what I laid out above: the more time spent on compute the more timeo1can spend spinning up multiple chains-of-thought, checking its answers, and iterating through different approaches and solutions.Here’s the thing: compute is expensive, both in terms of marginal costs (primarily electricity), and also in terms of opportunity costs (the GPUs used for thinking can’t be used by other paying customers, which means their depreciation costs are spread over fewer queries). This is another angle to think about ChatGPT Pro pricing: if you want access to models that require significantly more compute capacity, you’re going to have to pay for it.It’s also a big departure from how we have thought about LLMs to date: one of the “benefits” of auto-regressive LLMs is that you’re only generating one answer in a serial manner. Yes, you can get that answer faster with beefier hardware, but that is another way of saying that the pay-off from more inference compute is getting the answer faster; the accuracy of the answer is a function of the underlying model, not the amount of compute brought to bear. Another way to think about it is that the more important question for inference is how much memory is available; the more memory there is, the larger the model, and therefore, the greater amount of accuracy.In thiso1represents a new inference paradigm: yes, you need memory to load the model, but given the same model, answer quality does improve with more compute. The way that I am thinking about it is that more compute is kind of like having more branch predictors, which mean more registers, which require more cache, etc.; this isn’t a perfect analogy, but it is interesting to think about inference compute as being a sort of dynamic memory architecture for LLMs that lets them explore latent space for the best answer.To that end, it’s hardly a surprise thato1API pricing is dramatically more expensive than 4o:1M input tokens1M output tokensGPT-4o$5.00$15.00GPT-4o mini$0.15$0.60o1-preview$15.00$60.00o1-mini$3.00$12.00This pricing probably understates the delta, given thato1is going to use more tokens to generate an answer. Moreover, 4o remains the better choice for a lot of use cases that don’t require logic, above-and-beyond being a lot cheaper.o1-prois only available in ChatGPT to start, so we don’t have API pricing yet, but I’m sure it’s even more expensive; it’s also slower, which makes it worse for many use cases (like most of mine). What is interesting, however, is that API pricing is fairly straightforward in terms of OpenAI’s costs; it’s basically a cost-plus model. What is tricky about ChatGPT Pro pricing is that OpenAI does need to take care that its promise of (near) unlimited model access fits within a single monthly price. That is a bias for a higher price rather than a lower one, which is fine:o1is highly differentiated, i.e. it has low substitutability, if you find a use for it outside of solving crossword puzzles.There’s another way in which this pricing is symbolic, though: auto-regressive LLMs already make a lot of sense as an assistant (“help me write this letter”); the promise of something likeo1is that it actually can function as an agent, with the ability to do work — work that has been done before, to be clear — without the in-depth level of supervision required by LLMs. That’s worth a lot more money!Here is the challenge with ChatGPT specifically: a chat app — even one that comes packaged in a great app — is much more like an assistant than an agent. Yes, you can giveo1something to solve, do something else, and it will send you a notification when it’s done, but there is a lot more scaffolding necessary to build an agent. Which is fine: that $200/month price would actually be much too low if it were trivial to leverageo1autonomously, but at the same time, it’s not clear how many use cases require a slow and expensive thinking assistant instead of a cheap and fast one whose first answer is good enough.In short, I remain optimistic abouto1and scaling compute at inference time; I do question the extent to which ChatGPT will end up being the best way to fully leverage its capabilities, but that’s fine: that’s why the Plus level exists, and is priced competitively with alternatives like Claude.SoraYesterday’s big announcement is that Sora, OpenAI’s video generation model, is now publicly available to Plus and Pro users. FromOpenAI’s post:Our video generation model is rolling out atsora.com.Earlier this year, we introduced Sora, our model that can create realistic videos from text, and shared our initial research progress⁠ on world simulation. Sora serves as a foundation for AI that understands and simulates reality—an important step towards developing models that can interact with the physical world.We developed a new version of Sora — Sora Turbo — that is significantly faster than the model we previewed in February. We’re releasing it today as a standalone product at Sora.com to ChatGPT Plus and Pro users.I didn’t actually get to try Sora, because they turned off new account creation due to overwhelming demand; I did enjoy MKBHD’sYouTube review. There are three things that stood out to me:First, the amount of work that went into the Sora interface seems very impressive to me. This is another example of OpenAI’s product capabilities, which seem far ahead of any of their competitors.Second, here we are, two days after the announcement of ChatGPT Pro, with a new justification for that higher price: more videos (500 per month versus 50) and at higher resolution (up to 1080p versus up to 720p). That’s a pretty big delta!Third, MKBHD’s number one complaint wasweak object permanence. Sora just sort of forgets where certain objects are, like legs, or a smartphone in a tech reviewer’s hand that appears and disappears.This last one ties back into theo1discussion above. What I get from these videos is the sense that the current version of Sora is a bit like regular LLMs, in that it seems to generate its best attempt at a video in a single shot; in this case the lack of object permanence is basically akin to a hallucination. What likely seems necessary is a recursive approach to video generation that checks previous and following frames to make sure everything makes sense, just likeo1uses chain of thought to revisit its proposed answer and make changes until it gets it right.In other words, what seems necessary is more inference time compute, which raises the question: how long until there is a ChatGPT subscription for $2,000/month? That might seem crazy, until you remember thatyou’re generating video at zero marginal cost to yourself. It’s a tremendous deal — if you use it.That’s the thing, though. Maybe the biggest takeaway from AI to-date is the massive returns that come from agency in terms of leveraging its capability; speaking of MKBHD, I wrote inMKBHDs for Everything:Wall-E erred by assuming that every human was the same, all gleefully enslaved by AUTO, the ship’s AI. In fact, though, I suspect humanity will be distributed bi-modally, with the vast majority of people happily wearing their Vision Pros or watching their streaming service or viewing their TikTok videos, while increasingly sovereign individuals, aided by AI, pilot the ship.That may sound extreme, but again, this is why it is useful to look to media first: Brownlee — one man, who started out by reviewing a media center remote on his HP laptop — does in fact hold the fate of entire companies and products in his hand. My bet is not that AI replaces Brownlee, but that AI means Brownlee’s for everything, not just media.This is probably the easiest way to understand OpenAI’s pricing: yes there are inference costs to cover, but at the end of the day, there is a disparity in how much agency people have to leverage AI; it makes perfect sense to segment pricing in a way that makes more money from people who have the wherewithal to derive that much more benefit.Give Stratechery asa gift!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedSora, Groq, and Virtual RealityDateTuesday, February 20, 2024AI HomeworkDateMonday, December 5, 2022DeepSeek FAQDateMonday, January 27, 2025←Intel’s Death and Potential RevivalGM Kills Cruise, Fleets Versus Autonomy, Robotaxi Outlook→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, I expounded onThe Gen AI Bridge to the Future, and frankly, I think I did a much better job of explaining myself. Today we have wearables that are looking for a use case; in the future we will have self-driving computers that will make wearables an obvious way to compute, just as the Internet made a smartphone obvious for everyone, and just as interactive applications drove demand for PCs. The use case comes first.On to the Update:ChatGPT ProFromBloomberg:OpenAI is introducing a higher-priced paid tier for its chatbot ChatGPT that includes unlimited access to its most powerful artificial intelligence models, including an improved version of its software that can perform human-like reasoning tasks. The new ChatGPT Pro option, announced in a livestreamed event on Thursday, will cost $200 a month and offer access to an expanded version of o1, its reasoning model. OpenAI previously introduced a preview of the model in September, but the company said the new version is faster and better at solving competitive math and code problems.Like other AI companies, OpenAI has been working to convince customers and businesses to pay for its software and help offset the high costs of building cutting-edge artificial intelligence models. OpenAI also offers a ChatGPT Plus subscription for $20 a month, a tenth of the cost of the new option…The announcement kicked off what OpenAI said will be 12 days of livestreamed product events. In a post on X Wednesday, OpenAI said it’s planning “a bunch of new things, big and small.”We are only three days in, and it will be interesting to see what else OpenAI announces by the time the 12th day rolls around. New pricing, however, is right up my alley, so I’m ready to jump in right now. Here is what OpenAI wrote intheir blog post:As AI becomes more advanced, it will solve increasingly complex and critical problems. It also takes significantly more compute to power these capabilities.Today, we’re adding ChatGPT Pro, a $200 monthly plan that enables scaled access to the best of OpenAI’s models and tools. This plan includes unlimited access to our smartest model, OpenAI o1, as well as to o1-mini, GPT-4o, and Advanced Voice. It also includes o1 pro mode, a version of o1 that uses more compute to think harder and provide even better answers to the hardest problems. In the future, we expect to add more powerful, compute-intensive productivity features to this plan.ChatGPT Pro provides a way for researchers, engineers, and other individuals who use research-grade intelligence daily to accelerate their productivity and be at the cutting edge of advancements in AI.There are a few different ways to look at this announcement. First, from a pure value capture perspective, I personally think that generative AI models are easily worth $200/month to me personally. Notice, however, the generic: for my specific use cases, which mostly entails researching and diving deep on things like CISC vs RISC instruction sets foryesterday’s Article, any of the top models would likely suffice, particularly given I’m still in the habit of verifying everything I write elsewhere. To invoke Porter’s Five Forces, there is significant industry rivalry,  which limits OpenAI’s pricing power.I do, for the record, use ChatGPT more than Claude; the biggest factor is the vastly superior ChatGPT Mac app. John Gruber noted atDaring Fireball:There’s much talk that Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 has pulled ahead of OpenAI’s ChatGPT 4o in terms of chatbot “intelligence”, but as an overall experience ChatGPT wins hands-down. For one thing ChatGPT has been able to search the web for answers for a while now, and it works great. For another, just today OpenAI launched ChatGPT’s dedicated “search” mode. Claude has nothing like it.But even their respective Mac apps are a stark contrast. The Claude app is a lazy Electron port. Right off the bat, the email field on the login screen doesn’t support autofill. Once you’re logged in, you don’t get any standard MacOS features. And of course because it’s Electron it’s bloated architecturally and uses a lot of memory. If you really want to use Claude as an “app” on your Mac you’d be better off saving a web app with Safari (File → Add to Dock…) than using this.ChatGPT’s native Mac app, on the other hand, is a truly native Mac app. It looks like a Mac app and feels like a Mac app because it really is a Mac app. I’ve liked it ever since it launched back in May, and it keeps getting better. And I keep using it more and more as my go-to resource for answering questions.Look, I get that this may seem silly to some; it’s like preferring to talk to someone slightly more dumb because they have better table manners and appearance. Isn’t the point the intelligence, and isn’t Claude better? I mean, maybe, but for me AI is a tool, and part of the usefulness of a tool is its ergonomics, and ChatGPT is just flat-out better; I want to use it because it’s nice to use, and I can’t say the same for Claude. Yes, this is a very “consumery” take, but, well, this is part of how OpenAI pushes its massive lead in consumer mindshare!There are more benefits to being a real Mac app than just look-and-feel; fromTechCrunch:OpenAI’s ChatGPT is starting to work with other apps on your computer. On Thursday, the startup announced the ChatGPT desktop app for macOS can now read code in a handful of developer-focused coding apps, such as VS Code, Xcode, TextEdit, Terminal, and iTerm2. That means developers will no longer have to copy and paste their code into ChatGPT, which has become a common way to use the chatbot. Now when the feature is enabled, OpenAI will automatically send the section of code you’re working on through its chatbot as context, alongside your prompt. However, unlike popular AI coding tools such as Cursor or GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT is currently unable to write code directly into developer apps on your behalf.The feature, called Work with Apps, is far from an AI agent, but OpenAI says getting ChatGPT to understand other apps is a “key building block” toward building agentic systems. One of the biggest challenges facing AI agents today is getting them to understand the rest of your computer screen, as opposed to prompts or their own responses. OpenAI says it’s focusing this feature on coding apps to start; this is likely because AI coding assistants have taken off as one of the most popular use cases for LLMs. The feature is available to Plus and Teams users today and will roll out to Enterprise and Edu in the next few weeks. OpenAI says ChatGPT will be able to work with other types of apps moving forward, specifically text-based apps that could be used for writing tasks.An electron app could use the same accessibility APIs that ChatGPT is leveraging to read apps, but the work would be more complex, and frankly, seems unlikely given the low level of effort present in the app itself. What is nice for me is that the list of supported apps now includes BBEdit, which I use to write; now I can simply ask ChatGPT questions about something I have written without any copy-and-pasting; it has the full context of the Article.Anyhow, is the quality of the ChatGPT Mac app worth a $180/month premium to Claude? Well, for most people certainly not, but it’s definitely worth a fair bit to me! But hey, it’s a moot point: the Mac app isn’t a Pro feature, or even a Plus feature (although “Work with Apps” is); it is, however, a reason to commit to a particular model, and who knows, maybe the unlimited usage will mean I choose the ChatGPT $200 option instead of a similar Pro level from an alternative.o1 ProIt’so1where things get more interesting. I’m going to extensively quotewhat I wrotewheno1-previewwas released in September as its all pertinent (I’ll insert my comments along the way). To start out with, I showedo1-previewsolving a New York Time Saturday Crossword Mini (which is larger than the usual Daily Mini, which Claude Sonnet 3.5 and ChatGPT 4o could sometimes get right — they always failed on the Saturday version though):I do have to come clean: it actually tooko1two tries to complete the crossword puzzle…I don’t know for sure, but my guess is that the model simply ran out of tokens. Remember, OpenAI isn’t revealing the intervening “reasoning tokens” where all of this iteration and testing is taking place, but they do exist; theAPI docsstate thato1-previewhas a maximum number of 32,768 output tokens, including reasoning tokens. My suspicion is that I hit this limit the first time; the second run (in a fresh session) only “thought” for 111 seconds (if you compare the summary of the thinking ofthe successful runto thefailed runyou will notice that the former arrived at the correct answer to a few key clues more quickly than the latter, speaking to the importance of path dependence).This is a limit that I presume can be expanded over time…Indeed it can: I dumped today’s full New York Times Crossword intoo1-pro(which now accepts images) and it took it like a champ, spending 3 minutes and 31 seconds solving it…fairly well; it got 51 of the 76 clues correct, but definitely lost track of the puzzle shape fairly egregiously for a few of them. Still, I’m impressed, both by the relative success, and also by both the sheer amount of information processed and the speed with which it was done. The limit has expanded!…which brings me back to the image above (which comes fromOpenAI’s announcement page):There has been a lot of talk about the importance of scale in terms of LLM performance; for auto-regressive LLMs that has meant training scale. The more parameters you have, the larger the infrastructure you need, but the payoff is greater accuracy because the model is incorporating that much more information. That certainly still applies too1, as the chart on the left indicates.It’s the chart on the right that is the bigger deal:o1gets more accurate the more time it spends on computeat inference time. This makes sense intuitively given what I laid out above: the more time spent on compute the more timeo1can spend spinning up multiple chains-of-thought, checking its answers, and iterating through different approaches and solutions.Here’s the thing: compute is expensive, both in terms of marginal costs (primarily electricity), and also in terms of opportunity costs (the GPUs used for thinking can’t be used by other paying customers, which means their depreciation costs are spread over fewer queries). This is another angle to think about ChatGPT Pro pricing: if you want access to models that require significantly more compute capacity, you’re going to have to pay for it.It’s also a big departure from how we have thought about LLMs to date: one of the “benefits” of auto-regressive LLMs is that you’re only generating one answer in a serial manner. Yes, you can get that answer faster with beefier hardware, but that is another way of saying that the pay-off from more inference compute is getting the answer faster; the accuracy of the answer is a function of the underlying model, not the amount of compute brought to bear. Another way to think about it is that the more important question for inference is how much memory is available; the more memory there is, the larger the model, and therefore, the greater amount of accuracy.In thiso1represents a new inference paradigm: yes, you need memory to load the model, but given the same model, answer quality does improve with more compute. The way that I am thinking about it is that more compute is kind of like having more branch predictors, which mean more registers, which require more cache, etc.; this isn’t a perfect analogy, but it is interesting to think about inference compute as being a sort of dynamic memory architecture for LLMs that lets them explore latent space for the best answer.To that end, it’s hardly a surprise thato1API pricing is dramatically more expensive than 4o:1M input tokens1M output tokensGPT-4o$5.00$15.00GPT-4o mini$0.15$0.60o1-preview$15.00$60.00o1-mini$3.00$12.00This pricing probably understates the delta, given thato1is going to use more tokens to generate an answer. Moreover, 4o remains the better choice for a lot of use cases that don’t require logic, above-and-beyond being a lot cheaper.o1-prois only available in ChatGPT to start, so we don’t have API pricing yet, but I’m sure it’s even more expensive; it’s also slower, which makes it worse for many use cases (like most of mine). What is interesting, however, is that API pricing is fairly straightforward in terms of OpenAI’s costs; it’s basically a cost-plus model. What is tricky about ChatGPT Pro pricing is that OpenAI does need to take care that its promise of (near) unlimited model access fits within a single monthly price. That is a bias for a higher price rather than a lower one, which is fine:o1is highly differentiated, i.e. it has low substitutability, if you find a use for it outside of solving crossword puzzles.There’s another way in which this pricing is symbolic, though: auto-regressive LLMs already make a lot of sense as an assistant (“help me write this letter”); the promise of something likeo1is that it actually can function as an agent, with the ability to do work — work that has been done before, to be clear — without the in-depth level of supervision required by LLMs. That’s worth a lot more money!Here is the challenge with ChatGPT specifically: a chat app — even one that comes packaged in a great app — is much more like an assistant than an agent. Yes, you can giveo1something to solve, do something else, and it will send you a notification when it’s done, but there is a lot more scaffolding necessary to build an agent. Which is fine: that $200/month price would actually be much too low if it were trivial to leverageo1autonomously, but at the same time, it’s not clear how many use cases require a slow and expensive thinking assistant instead of a cheap and fast one whose first answer is good enough.In short, I remain optimistic abouto1and scaling compute at inference time; I do question the extent to which ChatGPT will end up being the best way to fully leverage its capabilities, but that’s fine: that’s why the Plus level exists, and is priced competitively with alternatives like Claude.SoraYesterday’s big announcement is that Sora, OpenAI’s video generation model, is now publicly available to Plus and Pro users. FromOpenAI’s post:Our video generation model is rolling out atsora.com.Earlier this year, we introduced Sora, our model that can create realistic videos from text, and shared our initial research progress⁠ on world simulation. Sora serves as a foundation for AI that understands and simulates reality—an important step towards developing models that can interact with the physical world.We developed a new version of Sora — Sora Turbo — that is significantly faster than the model we previewed in February. We’re releasing it today as a standalone product at Sora.com to ChatGPT Plus and Pro users.I didn’t actually get to try Sora, because they turned off new account creation due to overwhelming demand; I did enjoy MKBHD’sYouTube review. There are three things that stood out to me:First, the amount of work that went into the Sora interface seems very impressive to me. This is another example of OpenAI’s product capabilities, which seem far ahead of any of their competitors.Second, here we are, two days after the announcement of ChatGPT Pro, with a new justification for that higher price: more videos (500 per month versus 50) and at higher resolution (up to 1080p versus up to 720p). That’s a pretty big delta!Third, MKBHD’s number one complaint wasweak object permanence. Sora just sort of forgets where certain objects are, like legs, or a smartphone in a tech reviewer’s hand that appears and disappears.This last one ties back into theo1discussion above. What I get from these videos is the sense that the current version of Sora is a bit like regular LLMs, in that it seems to generate its best attempt at a video in a single shot; in this case the lack of object permanence is basically akin to a hallucination. What likely seems necessary is a recursive approach to video generation that checks previous and following frames to make sure everything makes sense, just likeo1uses chain of thought to revisit its proposed answer and make changes until it gets it right.In other words, what seems necessary is more inference time compute, which raises the question: how long until there is a ChatGPT subscription for $2,000/month? That might seem crazy, until you remember thatyou’re generating video at zero marginal cost to yourself. It’s a tremendous deal — if you use it.That’s the thing, though. Maybe the biggest takeaway from AI to-date is the massive returns that come from agency in terms of leveraging its capability; speaking of MKBHD, I wrote inMKBHDs for Everything:Wall-E erred by assuming that every human was the same, all gleefully enslaved by AUTO, the ship’s AI. In fact, though, I suspect humanity will be distributed bi-modally, with the vast majority of people happily wearing their Vision Pros or watching their streaming service or viewing their TikTok videos, while increasingly sovereign individuals, aided by AI, pilot the ship.That may sound extreme, but again, this is why it is useful to look to media first: Brownlee — one man, who started out by reviewing a media center remote on his HP laptop — does in fact hold the fate of entire companies and products in his hand. My bet is not that AI replaces Brownlee, but that AI means Brownlee’s for everything, not just media.This is probably the easiest way to understand OpenAI’s pricing: yes there are inference costs to cover, but at the end of the day, there is a disparity in how much agency people have to leverage AI; it makes perfect sense to segment pricing in a way that makes more money from people who have the wherewithal to derive that much more benefit.Give Stratechery asa gift!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email OnMonday’s Sharp Tech, I expounded onThe Gen AI Bridge to the Future, and frankly, I think I did a much better job of explaining myself. Today we have wearables that are looking for a use case; in the future we will have self-driving computers that will make wearables an obvious way to compute, just as the Internet made a smartphone obvious for everyone, and just as interactive applications drove demand for PCs. The use case comes first. OpenAI is introducing a higher-priced paid tier for its chatbot ChatGPT that includes unlimited access to its most powerful artificial intelligence models, including an improved version of its software that can perform human-like reasoning tasks. The new ChatGPT Pro option, announced in a livestreamed event on Thursday, will cost $200 a month and offer access to an expanded version of o1, its reasoning model. OpenAI previously introduced a preview of the model in September, but the company said the new version is faster and better at solving competitive math and code problems. Like other AI companies, OpenAI has been working to convince customers and businesses to pay for its software and help offset the high costs of building cutting-edge artificial intelligence models. OpenAI also offers a ChatGPT Plus subscription for $20 a month, a tenth of the cost of the new option… We are only three days in, and it will be interesting to see what else OpenAI announces by the time the 12th day rolls around. New pricing, however, is right up my alley, so I’m ready to jump in right now. Here is what OpenAI wrote intheir blog post: Today, we’re adding ChatGPT Pro, a $200 monthly plan that enables scaled access to the best of OpenAI’s models and tools. This plan includes unlimited access to our smartest model, OpenAI o1, as well as to o1-mini, GPT-4o, and Advanced Voice. It also includes o1 pro mode, a version of o1 that uses more compute to think harder and provide even better answers to the hardest problems. In the future, we expect to add more powerful, compute-intensive productivity features to this plan. ChatGPT Pro provides a way for researchers, engineers, and other individuals who use research-grade intelligence daily to accelerate their productivity and be at the cutting edge of advancements in AI. There are a few different ways to look at this announcement. First, from a pure value capture perspective, I personally think that generative AI models are easily worth $200/month to me personally. Notice, however, the generic: for my specific use cases, which mostly entails researching and diving deep on things like CISC vs RISC instruction sets foryesterday’s Article, any of the top models would likely suffice, particularly given I’m still in the habit of verifying everything I write elsewhere. To invoke Porter’s Five Forces, there is significant industry rivalry,  which limits OpenAI’s pricing power. There’s much talk that Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 has pulled ahead of OpenAI’s ChatGPT 4o in terms of chatbot “intelligence”, but as an overall experience ChatGPT wins hands-down. For one thing ChatGPT has been able to search the web for answers for a while now, and it works great. For another, just today OpenAI launched ChatGPT’s dedicated “search” mode. Claude has nothing like it. But even their respective Mac apps are a stark contrast. The Claude app is a lazy Electron port. Right off the bat, the email field on the login screen doesn’t support autofill. Once you’re logged in, you don’t get any standard MacOS features. And of course because it’s Electron it’s bloated architecturally and uses a lot of memory. If you really want to use Claude as an “app” on your Mac you’d be better off saving a web app with Safari (File → Add to Dock…) than using this. ChatGPT’s native Mac app, on the other hand, is a truly native Mac app. It looks like a Mac app and feels like a Mac app because it really is a Mac app. I’ve liked it ever since it launched back in May, and it keeps getting better. And I keep using it more and more as my go-to resource for answering questions. Look, I get that this may seem silly to some; it’s like preferring to talk to someone slightly more dumb because they have better table manners and appearance. Isn’t the point the intelligence, and isn’t Claude better? I mean, maybe, but for me AI is a tool, and part of the usefulness of a tool is its ergonomics, and ChatGPT is just flat-out better; I want to use it because it’s nice to use, and I can’t say the same for Claude. Yes, this is a very “consumery” take, but, well, this is part of how OpenAI pushes its massive lead in consumer mindshare! OpenAI’s ChatGPT is starting to work with other apps on your computer. On Thursday, the startup announced the ChatGPT desktop app for macOS can now read code in a handful of developer-focused coding apps, such as VS Code, Xcode, TextEdit, Terminal, and iTerm2. That means developers will no longer have to copy and paste their code into ChatGPT, which has become a common way to use the chatbot. Now when the feature is enabled, OpenAI will automatically send the section of code you’re working on through its chatbot as context, alongside your prompt. However, unlike popular AI coding tools such as Cursor or GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT is currently unable to write code directly into developer apps on your behalf. The feature, called Work with Apps, is far from an AI agent, but OpenAI says getting ChatGPT to understand other apps is a “key building block” toward building agentic systems. One of the biggest challenges facing AI agents today is getting them to understand the rest of your computer screen, as opposed to prompts or their own responses. OpenAI says it’s focusing this feature on coding apps to start; this is likely because AI coding assistants have taken off as one of the most popular use cases for LLMs. The feature is available to Plus and Teams users today and will roll out to Enterprise and Edu in the next few weeks. OpenAI says ChatGPT will be able to work with other types of apps moving forward, specifically text-based apps that could be used for writing tasks. An electron app could use the same accessibility APIs that ChatGPT is leveraging to read apps, but the work would be more complex, and frankly, seems unlikely given the low level of effort present in the app itself. What is nice for me is that the list of supported apps now includes BBEdit, which I use to write; now I can simply ask ChatGPT questions about something I have written without any copy-and-pasting; it has the full context of the Article. Anyhow, is the quality of the ChatGPT Mac app worth a $180/month premium to Claude? Well, for most people certainly not, but it’s definitely worth a fair bit to me! But hey, it’s a moot point: the Mac app isn’t a Pro feature, or even a Plus feature (although “Work with Apps” is); it is, however, a reason to commit to a particular model, and who knows, maybe the unlimited usage will mean I choose the ChatGPT $200 option instead of a similar Pro level from an alternative. It’so1where things get more interesting. I’m going to extensively quotewhat I wrotewheno1-previewwas released in September as its all pertinent (I’ll insert my comments along the way). To start out with, I showedo1-previewsolving a New York Time Saturday Crossword Mini (which is larger than the usual Daily Mini, which Claude Sonnet 3.5 and ChatGPT 4o could sometimes get right — they always failed on the Saturday version though): I do have to come clean: it actually tooko1two tries to complete the crossword puzzle…I don’t know for sure, but my guess is that the model simply ran out of tokens. Remember, OpenAI isn’t revealing the intervening “reasoning tokens” where all of this iteration and testing is taking place, but they do exist; theAPI docsstate thato1-previewhas a maximum number of 32,768 output tokens, including reasoning tokens. My suspicion is that I hit this limit the first time; the second run (in a fresh session) only “thought” for 111 seconds (if you compare the summary of the thinking ofthe successful runto thefailed runyou will notice that the former arrived at the correct answer to a few key clues more quickly than the latter, speaking to the importance of path dependence). Indeed it can: I dumped today’s full New York Times Crossword intoo1-pro(which now accepts images) and it took it like a champ, spending 3 minutes and 31 seconds solving it…fairly well; it got 51 of the 76 clues correct, but definitely lost track of the puzzle shape fairly egregiously for a few of them. Still, I’m impressed, both by the relative success, and also by both the sheer amount of information processed and the speed with which it was done. The limit has expanded! There has been a lot of talk about the importance of scale in terms of LLM performance; for auto-regressive LLMs that has meant training scale. The more parameters you have, the larger the infrastructure you need, but the payoff is greater accuracy because the model is incorporating that much more information. That certainly still applies too1, as the chart on the left indicates. It’s the chart on the right that is the bigger deal:o1gets more accurate the more time it spends on computeat inference time. This makes sense intuitively given what I laid out above: the more time spent on compute the more timeo1can spend spinning up multiple chains-of-thought, checking its answers, and iterating through different approaches and solutions. Here’s the thing: compute is expensive, both in terms of marginal costs (primarily electricity), and also in terms of opportunity costs (the GPUs used for thinking can’t be used by other paying customers, which means their depreciation costs are spread over fewer queries). This is another angle to think about ChatGPT Pro pricing: if you want access to models that require significantly more compute capacity, you’re going to have to pay for it. It’s also a big departure from how we have thought about LLMs to date: one of the “benefits” of auto-regressive LLMs is that you’re only generating one answer in a serial manner. Yes, you can get that answer faster with beefier hardware, but that is another way of saying that the pay-off from more inference compute is getting the answer faster; the accuracy of the answer is a function of the underlying model, not the amount of compute brought to bear. Another way to think about it is that the more important question for inference is how much memory is available; the more memory there is, the larger the model, and therefore, the greater amount of accuracy. In thiso1represents a new inference paradigm: yes, you need memory to load the model, but given the same model, answer quality does improve with more compute. The way that I am thinking about it is that more compute is kind of like having more branch predictors, which mean more registers, which require more cache, etc.; this isn’t a perfect analogy, but it is interesting to think about inference compute as being a sort of dynamic memory architecture for LLMs that lets them explore latent space for the best answer. This pricing probably understates the delta, given thato1is going to use more tokens to generate an answer. Moreover, 4o remains the better choice for a lot of use cases that don’t require logic, above-and-beyond being a lot cheaper. o1-prois only available in ChatGPT to start, so we don’t have API pricing yet, but I’m sure it’s even more expensive; it’s also slower, which makes it worse for many use cases (like most of mine). What is interesting, however, is that API pricing is fairly straightforward in terms of OpenAI’s costs; it’s basically a cost-plus model. What is tricky about ChatGPT Pro pricing is that OpenAI does need to take care that its promise of (near) unlimited model access fits within a single monthly price. That is a bias for a higher price rather than a lower one, which is fine:o1is highly differentiated, i.e. it has low substitutability, if you find a use for it outside of solving crossword puzzles. There’s another way in which this pricing is symbolic, though: auto-regressive LLMs already make a lot of sense as an assistant (“help me write this letter”); the promise of something likeo1is that it actually can function as an agent, with the ability to do work — work that has been done before, to be clear — without the in-depth level of supervision required by LLMs. That’s worth a lot more money! Here is the challenge with ChatGPT specifically: a chat app — even one that comes packaged in a great app — is much more like an assistant than an agent. Yes, you can giveo1something to solve, do something else, and it will send you a notification when it’s done, but there is a lot more scaffolding necessary to build an agent. Which is fine: that $200/month price would actually be much too low if it were trivial to leverageo1autonomously, but at the same time, it’s not clear how many use cases require a slow and expensive thinking assistant instead of a cheap and fast one whose first answer is good enough. In short, I remain optimistic abouto1and scaling compute at inference time; I do question the extent to which ChatGPT will end up being the best way to fully leverage its capabilities, but that’s fine: that’s why the Plus level exists, and is priced competitively with alternatives like Claude. Earlier this year, we introduced Sora, our model that can create realistic videos from text, and shared our initial research progress⁠ on world simulation. Sora serves as a foundation for AI that understands and simulates reality—an important step towards developing models that can interact with the physical world. We developed a new version of Sora — Sora Turbo — that is significantly faster than the model we previewed in February. We’re releasing it today as a standalone product at Sora.com to ChatGPT Plus and Pro users. This last one ties back into theo1discussion above. What I get from these videos is the sense that the current version of Sora is a bit like regular LLMs, in that it seems to generate its best attempt at a video in a single shot; in this case the lack of object permanence is basically akin to a hallucination. What likely seems necessary is a recursive approach to video generation that checks previous and following frames to make sure everything makes sense, just likeo1uses chain of thought to revisit its proposed answer and make changes until it gets it right. In other words, what seems necessary is more inference time compute, which raises the question: how long until there is a ChatGPT subscription for $2,000/month? That might seem crazy, until you remember thatyou’re generating video at zero marginal cost to yourself. It’s a tremendous deal — if you use it. That’s the thing, though. Maybe the biggest takeaway from AI to-date is the massive returns that come from agency in terms of leveraging its capability; speaking of MKBHD, I wrote inMKBHDs for Everything: Wall-E erred by assuming that every human was the same, all gleefully enslaved by AUTO, the ship’s AI. In fact, though, I suspect humanity will be distributed bi-modally, with the vast majority of people happily wearing their Vision Pros or watching their streaming service or viewing their TikTok videos, while increasingly sovereign individuals, aided by AI, pilot the ship. That may sound extreme, but again, this is why it is useful to look to media first: Brownlee — one man, who started out by reviewing a media center remote on his HP laptop — does in fact hold the fate of entire companies and products in his hand. My bet is not that AI replaces Brownlee, but that AI means Brownlee’s for everything, not just media. This is probably the easiest way to understand OpenAI’s pricing: yes there are inference costs to cover, but at the end of the day, there is a disparity in how much agency people have to leverage AI; it makes perfect sense to segment pricing in a way that makes more money from people who have the wherewithal to derive that much more benefit. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025