# [PODCAST] A Google I/O Idea, The Smartphone AI Value Chain, Apple's Developer Hang-Ups

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/a-google-i-o-idea-the-smartphone-ai-value-chain-apples-developer-hang-ups/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.F1syPUUSl9TiU-oNrcAsCKka1uaeFLFp_S0rHqp64K7vbr1Q2dFmPrihg_fF_n7KD0-w0qm220USMiU4nrF8WtsZYNllUZIKoaya7FPEMPH2NKig6RiWzSs3fQ3OoDU9-T7WChT7HNo83U7B7oi-gSwPwLNYo4L_6y-oL173A1MBGq2u5vK-pYHOpiZ2fu2b04zubAWj3wxxNqOlLKUtgTOCwuT7xBj81j-fwGBlh0QM6zpP49Q443BPzW0ErqGNoMZWCJhtjnEZePFboGv8Ke-EZG_5wGoA15byBEF6ymSLIpxC3gk-vJQBZGTefH8sI-XNBSiki_Oxb1WcnThJ8A
**Atlas ID**: 229610
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.903089

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirA Google I/O Idea, The Smartphone AI Value Chain, Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsTuesday, March 11, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the streaming landscape and why I’m optimistic about YouTube. Then, onyesterday’s episode, we talked about Apple’s AI challenges, and why chatbots have — at least to date — been the killer app for AI.On to the Update:A Google I/O IdeaFromThe Verge, in February:Google’s next I/O developer conference will take place on May 20th and May 21st, the company announced today. The event will be “open to everyone online” and will include “livestreamed keynotes and sessions,” according to an FAQ. Like past years, there will also be an in-person component at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California…The last Google I/O kicked off on May 14th, 2024. The event was packed with a ton of announcements, including new Gemini AI features and models, the Project Astra AI assistant, its Veo generative AI video model, and a big AI-focused overhaul for Google Search. The 2023 edition of I/O was filled with AI news, too, but at that show, Google also announced the Pixel Fold, Pixel Tablet, and Pixel 7A.I was chatting with John Gruber after recordingthis morning’s Dithering, and he posited a very funny scenario: a Google executive takes the stage, pulls out an Android phone, and says, “Google, when is my mom’s flight landing?”That’s in reference to this demo in last year’s WWDC keynote:What would make this potential I/O prank effective is if it works, live and on-stage, not pre-recorded and (probably) doctored. It certainly seems possible, no? At a minimum, it surely seems more likely that Google could actually ship this feature.The Smartphone AI Value ChainYesterday’s ArticleApple AI’s Platform Pivot Potential, to the extent it referenced past Stratechery pieces, focused on the difference between Aggregators and Platforms. There are two other threads to pull on, however.First, go back to just last fall and the Article I wrote after the most recent Pixel launch. FromIntegration and Android:Yesterday Google announced its ninth iteration of Pixel phones, and as you might expect, the focus was on AI. It is also unsurprising that the foundation of Osterloh’s pitch at the beginning of the keynote was about integration. What was notable is that the integration he focused on actually didn’t have anything to do with Pixel at all, but rather Android and Google:We’re re-imagining the entire OS layer, putting Gemini right at the core of Android, the world’s most popular OS. You can see how we’re innovating with AI at every layer of the tech stack: from the infrastructure and the foundation models, to the OS and devices, and the apps and services you use every day. It’s a complete end-to-end experience that only Google can deliver. And I want to talk about the work we’re going to integrate it all together, with an integrated, helpful AI assistant for everyone. It changes how people interact with their mobile devices, and we’re building it right into Android.For years, we’ve been pursuing our vision of a mobile AI assistant that you can work with like you work with a real life personal assistant, but we’ve been limited by the bounds of what existing technologies can do. So we’ve completely rebuilt the personal assistant experience around our Gemini models, creating a novel kind of computing help for the Gemini era.The new Gemini assistant can go beyond understanding your words, to understanding your intent, so you can communicate more naturally. It can synthesize large amounts of information within seconds, and tackle complex tasks. It can draft messages for you, brainstorm with you, and give you ideas on how you can improve your work. With your permission, it can offer unparalleled personalized help, accessing relevant information across your Gmail Inbox, your Google calendar, and more. And it can reason across personal information and Google’s world knowledge, to provide just the right help and insight you need, and its only possible through advances we made in Gemini models over the last six months. It’s the biggest leap forward since we launched Google Assistant. Now we’re going to keep building responsibly, and pushing to make sure Gemini is available to everyone on every phone, and of course this starts with Android.This may seem obvious, and in many respects it is: Google is a services company, which means it is incentivized to serve the entire world, maximizing the leverage on its costs, and the best way to reach the entire world is via Android…my takeaway from yesterday’s event is [that] Android still matters most, and the integration Google is truly betting on is with the cloud…Google’s real bet is that owning the information stack matters more than owning the tech stack, particularly when you have the most capable cloud infrastructure to act on it. That is, of course, the same Android strategy as always; the bet is that AI does the hard work of making it more attractive to premium customers than it has to date.Like I said, this isn’t exactly a new strategy; the bet, however, is that Gemini is so useful — particularly if you use Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Photos, etc. — that Google’s long-running integration of web services and the smartphone OS actually becomes a reason to switch. This results in a point of integration that looks like this:An important implication of this approach is that by leaning into Android’s breadth Google cannot depend too deeply — or really at all — on the underlying hardware. This, by extension, means total dependence on the cloud — Google’s cloud, specifically. This is a good bet for Google, to be clear; their infrastructure is one of their biggest advantages in AI, and, asI noted after last spring’s Cloud Next keynote, this fits the company’s nature:Google is facing many of the same challenges after its decades long dominance of the open web: all of the products shown yesterday rely on a different business model than advertising, and to properly execute and deliver on them will require a cultural shift to supporting customers instead of tolerating them. What hasn’t changed — because it is the company’s nature, and thus cannot — is the reliance on scale and an overwhelming infrastructure advantage. That, more than anything, is what defines Google, and it was encouraging to see that so explicitly put forward as an advantage.That keynote was about enterprise and Google Cloud, but it very much signaled what the company announced at that Android event I excerpted above; the extra ingredient for the latter was Google being the interaction layer for AI, which befits their heritage as an Aggregator.Here’s the question for Apple: is this really a game they want to play, competing with Google in an arena that Google is perfectly suited for? Yes, Apple has cloud services, and yes, they are serviceable and not an embarrassment like they used to be, but they’re hardly the company’s forte. And sure, the company can make better guarantees about hardware capability, but to what end? So that Apple can spend less on infrastructure by using weaker processors?Apple’s point of integration has always been — and should aways be — hardware and the operating system, and that’s where AI should sit:The operating system is not Siri; that’s something that sits on top — otherwise it’s a constraint on the opportunity space, just as much as an overt dependence on a cloud service might be. That constraint might make sense if the goal is to run on as many devices as possible, like Android does, but that’s not Apple’s model! So why is it trying to play that game? Its opportunity is to enable a plethora of 3rd-party apps.Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsThis was the point of yesterday’s Article: the best way for Apple to take advantage of its point of integration and consistent high-end hardware capabilities is to enable developers to build compelling — and fully unrestricted — experiences using Apple’s pre-loaded models. These experiences wouldn’t have any marginal costs, because they are running locally; Apple could also rent out access to Private Cloud Compute, which would match up nicely with a subscription business model, which is great for Apple’s Services revenue line. Still, the big differentiator and focus for the company should be AI on the edge.And yet, while this strategy seems clear to me, I have serious questions as to whether Apple will ever go this route. I laid out the core reason why — a reason that also underlies Apple’s contentious relationship with developers — at the very beginning of Stratechery. From July 2013’sWhy Doesn’t Apple Enable Sustainable Businesses on the App Store?:Last week I transcribedsignificant portions of the Steve Jobs keynoteat Macworld Boston. In that keynote, he described how Apple was dependent on Adobe for many of its sales, and, more famously, introduces Apple’s “partnership” with Microsoft.Jobs’ closing speech, where he said that “We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose,” is well-known and still cited; however, I think the full quote is more telling (emphasis mine):You know,where we are right now, is, we’re shepherding some of the greatest assets in the computer industry. And,if we want to move forward and see Apple healthy and prospering again, we have to let go of a few things here.We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose. OK? We have to embrace a notion that for Apple to win Apple has to do a really good job, and if others are going to help us, that’s great, causewe need all the help we can get. And if we screw up and we don’t do a good job, it’s not somebody else’s fault. It’s our fault. So, I think that’s a very important perspective.I think,if we want Microsoft Office on the Mac, we better treat the company that puts it out with a little bit of gratitude. We like their software.So, the era of setting this up as a competition between Apple and Microsoft is over as far as I’m concerned.This is about getting healthy, and this is about Apple being able to make incredibly great contributions to the industry, to get healthy and prosper again.The emphasis brings home the point: Jobs’ statement was completely driven by Apple’s desperate state and the fact that Apple’s potential users cared more about Photoshop and Office than they did the Mac. For Jobs especially, it must have been humiliating.I had a unique vantage point into how Apple looks at this time in its history due to my time spent on theApple University team, and something that struck me was the powerful impact Apple’s near-death experience had on all those involved. ThatWired cover, and the fact Apple lost nearly a billion dollars in 1996, came up unprompted again and again. For those that were there, itstillfundamentally shapes how they view the world and how they make decisions.To be clear, this has tremendous value: there is nothing like near-deathto realizeyou have nothing to lose — a great recipe to avoiding disruption. In fact, one of my concerns for Apple is what will happen when all of the old guard is gone, leaving those who have only known success.But there have been downsides to this paranoia. Apple’s inefficient use of its cash is the most famous, but I think developer hostility is an aftereffect as well. I would go so far as to argue that that Boston keynote was at the root of Jobs’ opposition toany3rd-party apps on the iPhone, much less App Store policies that enable sustainable businesses. Never again would Apple be held hostage to an app that was bigger than Apple.Last fall, after the iPhones 16 launch, I titled my ArticleBoomer Apple; that was mostly in reference to the boringness of the shift to services, along with the observation that an increasingly amount of keynote time seemed to be spent on (very worthwhile!) features that mostly appealed people in their 50s and 60s. People like Apple’s executive team. Perhaps that is why this tweet from David Heinemeier Hansson jumped out at me:I explained above why Apple’s old guard — particularly the most senior members who remember the 90s — are an obstacle to unleashing developers. Implicit in “old guard”, however, is just plain “old”, and AI is very much a young person’s game. It requires such a different way of thinking and approach to product development, and it’s reasonable to wonder if Apple, at least at the leadership level, has it in them.To that end, I am somewhat surprised — and disappointed — that last week’s news about Siri’s delay did not include any news about executive retirements; there was newsin Januaryabout an executive shuffle in the AI team, but this failure strikes me as one that is significant enough to demand accountability.What I think is more important, however, is that Apple revisit all of its assumptions from the last 15 years, even though — or because — they were the most successful in the company’s history.The iPhone was a perfect product, so perfect that Apple could indulge its anti-developer sentiment while building a moat with 3rd-party apps. That created a foundation for Apple to have a differentiated offering in AI, one that allows them to be an Aggregator for foundation models, letting others make massive capital expenditures on their behalf, even as they dominate AI on the edge. But to truly seize that advantage the company needs to go back to being a platform, what they were when they were young. Can they remember how?This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.10: Apple and Its Intelligence GapsDateFriday, March 7, 2025AI Integration and ModularizationDateWednesday, May 29, 2024The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024←Apple AI’s Platform Pivot PotentialOpenAI API Updates, Steelmanning the API Business, The Problem With Both→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air A Google I/O Idea, The Smartphone AI Value Chain, Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsTuesday, March 11, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the streaming landscape and why I’m optimistic about YouTube. Then, onyesterday’s episode, we talked about Apple’s AI challenges, and why chatbots have — at least to date — been the killer app for AI.On to the Update:A Google I/O IdeaFromThe Verge, in February:Google’s next I/O developer conference will take place on May 20th and May 21st, the company announced today. The event will be “open to everyone online” and will include “livestreamed keynotes and sessions,” according to an FAQ. Like past years, there will also be an in-person component at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California…The last Google I/O kicked off on May 14th, 2024. The event was packed with a ton of announcements, including new Gemini AI features and models, the Project Astra AI assistant, its Veo generative AI video model, and a big AI-focused overhaul for Google Search. The 2023 edition of I/O was filled with AI news, too, but at that show, Google also announced the Pixel Fold, Pixel Tablet, and Pixel 7A.I was chatting with John Gruber after recordingthis morning’s Dithering, and he posited a very funny scenario: a Google executive takes the stage, pulls out an Android phone, and says, “Google, when is my mom’s flight landing?”That’s in reference to this demo in last year’s WWDC keynote:What would make this potential I/O prank effective is if it works, live and on-stage, not pre-recorded and (probably) doctored. It certainly seems possible, no? At a minimum, it surely seems more likely that Google could actually ship this feature.The Smartphone AI Value ChainYesterday’s ArticleApple AI’s Platform Pivot Potential, to the extent it referenced past Stratechery pieces, focused on the difference between Aggregators and Platforms. There are two other threads to pull on, however.First, go back to just last fall and the Article I wrote after the most recent Pixel launch. FromIntegration and Android:Yesterday Google announced its ninth iteration of Pixel phones, and as you might expect, the focus was on AI. It is also unsurprising that the foundation of Osterloh’s pitch at the beginning of the keynote was about integration. What was notable is that the integration he focused on actually didn’t have anything to do with Pixel at all, but rather Android and Google:We’re re-imagining the entire OS layer, putting Gemini right at the core of Android, the world’s most popular OS. You can see how we’re innovating with AI at every layer of the tech stack: from the infrastructure and the foundation models, to the OS and devices, and the apps and services you use every day. It’s a complete end-to-end experience that only Google can deliver. And I want to talk about the work we’re going to integrate it all together, with an integrated, helpful AI assistant for everyone. It changes how people interact with their mobile devices, and we’re building it right into Android.For years, we’ve been pursuing our vision of a mobile AI assistant that you can work with like you work with a real life personal assistant, but we’ve been limited by the bounds of what existing technologies can do. So we’ve completely rebuilt the personal assistant experience around our Gemini models, creating a novel kind of computing help for the Gemini era.The new Gemini assistant can go beyond understanding your words, to understanding your intent, so you can communicate more naturally. It can synthesize large amounts of information within seconds, and tackle complex tasks. It can draft messages for you, brainstorm with you, and give you ideas on how you can improve your work. With your permission, it can offer unparalleled personalized help, accessing relevant information across your Gmail Inbox, your Google calendar, and more. And it can reason across personal information and Google’s world knowledge, to provide just the right help and insight you need, and its only possible through advances we made in Gemini models over the last six months. It’s the biggest leap forward since we launched Google Assistant. Now we’re going to keep building responsibly, and pushing to make sure Gemini is available to everyone on every phone, and of course this starts with Android.This may seem obvious, and in many respects it is: Google is a services company, which means it is incentivized to serve the entire world, maximizing the leverage on its costs, and the best way to reach the entire world is via Android…my takeaway from yesterday’s event is [that] Android still matters most, and the integration Google is truly betting on is with the cloud…Google’s real bet is that owning the information stack matters more than owning the tech stack, particularly when you have the most capable cloud infrastructure to act on it. That is, of course, the same Android strategy as always; the bet is that AI does the hard work of making it more attractive to premium customers than it has to date.Like I said, this isn’t exactly a new strategy; the bet, however, is that Gemini is so useful — particularly if you use Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Photos, etc. — that Google’s long-running integration of web services and the smartphone OS actually becomes a reason to switch. This results in a point of integration that looks like this:An important implication of this approach is that by leaning into Android’s breadth Google cannot depend too deeply — or really at all — on the underlying hardware. This, by extension, means total dependence on the cloud — Google’s cloud, specifically. This is a good bet for Google, to be clear; their infrastructure is one of their biggest advantages in AI, and, asI noted after last spring’s Cloud Next keynote, this fits the company’s nature:Google is facing many of the same challenges after its decades long dominance of the open web: all of the products shown yesterday rely on a different business model than advertising, and to properly execute and deliver on them will require a cultural shift to supporting customers instead of tolerating them. What hasn’t changed — because it is the company’s nature, and thus cannot — is the reliance on scale and an overwhelming infrastructure advantage. That, more than anything, is what defines Google, and it was encouraging to see that so explicitly put forward as an advantage.That keynote was about enterprise and Google Cloud, but it very much signaled what the company announced at that Android event I excerpted above; the extra ingredient for the latter was Google being the interaction layer for AI, which befits their heritage as an Aggregator.Here’s the question for Apple: is this really a game they want to play, competing with Google in an arena that Google is perfectly suited for? Yes, Apple has cloud services, and yes, they are serviceable and not an embarrassment like they used to be, but they’re hardly the company’s forte. And sure, the company can make better guarantees about hardware capability, but to what end? So that Apple can spend less on infrastructure by using weaker processors?Apple’s point of integration has always been — and should aways be — hardware and the operating system, and that’s where AI should sit:The operating system is not Siri; that’s something that sits on top — otherwise it’s a constraint on the opportunity space, just as much as an overt dependence on a cloud service might be. That constraint might make sense if the goal is to run on as many devices as possible, like Android does, but that’s not Apple’s model! So why is it trying to play that game? Its opportunity is to enable a plethora of 3rd-party apps.Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsThis was the point of yesterday’s Article: the best way for Apple to take advantage of its point of integration and consistent high-end hardware capabilities is to enable developers to build compelling — and fully unrestricted — experiences using Apple’s pre-loaded models. These experiences wouldn’t have any marginal costs, because they are running locally; Apple could also rent out access to Private Cloud Compute, which would match up nicely with a subscription business model, which is great for Apple’s Services revenue line. Still, the big differentiator and focus for the company should be AI on the edge.And yet, while this strategy seems clear to me, I have serious questions as to whether Apple will ever go this route. I laid out the core reason why — a reason that also underlies Apple’s contentious relationship with developers — at the very beginning of Stratechery. From July 2013’sWhy Doesn’t Apple Enable Sustainable Businesses on the App Store?:Last week I transcribedsignificant portions of the Steve Jobs keynoteat Macworld Boston. In that keynote, he described how Apple was dependent on Adobe for many of its sales, and, more famously, introduces Apple’s “partnership” with Microsoft.Jobs’ closing speech, where he said that “We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose,” is well-known and still cited; however, I think the full quote is more telling (emphasis mine):You know,where we are right now, is, we’re shepherding some of the greatest assets in the computer industry. And,if we want to move forward and see Apple healthy and prospering again, we have to let go of a few things here.We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose. OK? We have to embrace a notion that for Apple to win Apple has to do a really good job, and if others are going to help us, that’s great, causewe need all the help we can get. And if we screw up and we don’t do a good job, it’s not somebody else’s fault. It’s our fault. So, I think that’s a very important perspective.I think,if we want Microsoft Office on the Mac, we better treat the company that puts it out with a little bit of gratitude. We like their software.So, the era of setting this up as a competition between Apple and Microsoft is over as far as I’m concerned.This is about getting healthy, and this is about Apple being able to make incredibly great contributions to the industry, to get healthy and prosper again.The emphasis brings home the point: Jobs’ statement was completely driven by Apple’s desperate state and the fact that Apple’s potential users cared more about Photoshop and Office than they did the Mac. For Jobs especially, it must have been humiliating.I had a unique vantage point into how Apple looks at this time in its history due to my time spent on theApple University team, and something that struck me was the powerful impact Apple’s near-death experience had on all those involved. ThatWired cover, and the fact Apple lost nearly a billion dollars in 1996, came up unprompted again and again. For those that were there, itstillfundamentally shapes how they view the world and how they make decisions.To be clear, this has tremendous value: there is nothing like near-deathto realizeyou have nothing to lose — a great recipe to avoiding disruption. In fact, one of my concerns for Apple is what will happen when all of the old guard is gone, leaving those who have only known success.But there have been downsides to this paranoia. Apple’s inefficient use of its cash is the most famous, but I think developer hostility is an aftereffect as well. I would go so far as to argue that that Boston keynote was at the root of Jobs’ opposition toany3rd-party apps on the iPhone, much less App Store policies that enable sustainable businesses. Never again would Apple be held hostage to an app that was bigger than Apple.Last fall, after the iPhones 16 launch, I titled my ArticleBoomer Apple; that was mostly in reference to the boringness of the shift to services, along with the observation that an increasingly amount of keynote time seemed to be spent on (very worthwhile!) features that mostly appealed people in their 50s and 60s. People like Apple’s executive team. Perhaps that is why this tweet from David Heinemeier Hansson jumped out at me:I explained above why Apple’s old guard — particularly the most senior members who remember the 90s — are an obstacle to unleashing developers. Implicit in “old guard”, however, is just plain “old”, and AI is very much a young person’s game. It requires such a different way of thinking and approach to product development, and it’s reasonable to wonder if Apple, at least at the leadership level, has it in them.To that end, I am somewhat surprised — and disappointed — that last week’s news about Siri’s delay did not include any news about executive retirements; there was newsin Januaryabout an executive shuffle in the AI team, but this failure strikes me as one that is significant enough to demand accountability.What I think is more important, however, is that Apple revisit all of its assumptions from the last 15 years, even though — or because — they were the most successful in the company’s history.The iPhone was a perfect product, so perfect that Apple could indulge its anti-developer sentiment while building a moat with 3rd-party apps. That created a foundation for Apple to have a differentiated offering in AI, one that allows them to be an Aggregator for foundation models, letting others make massive capital expenditures on their behalf, even as they dominate AI on the edge. But to truly seize that advantage the company needs to go back to being a platform, what they were when they were young. Can they remember how?This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.10: Apple and Its Intelligence GapsDateFriday, March 7, 2025AI Integration and ModularizationDateWednesday, May 29, 2024The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024←Apple AI’s Platform Pivot PotentialOpenAI API Updates, Steelmanning the API Business, The Problem With Both→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All A Google I/O Idea, The Smartphone AI Value Chain, Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsTuesday, March 11, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the streaming landscape and why I’m optimistic about YouTube. Then, onyesterday’s episode, we talked about Apple’s AI challenges, and why chatbots have — at least to date — been the killer app for AI.On to the Update:A Google I/O IdeaFromThe Verge, in February:Google’s next I/O developer conference will take place on May 20th and May 21st, the company announced today. The event will be “open to everyone online” and will include “livestreamed keynotes and sessions,” according to an FAQ. Like past years, there will also be an in-person component at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California…The last Google I/O kicked off on May 14th, 2024. The event was packed with a ton of announcements, including new Gemini AI features and models, the Project Astra AI assistant, its Veo generative AI video model, and a big AI-focused overhaul for Google Search. The 2023 edition of I/O was filled with AI news, too, but at that show, Google also announced the Pixel Fold, Pixel Tablet, and Pixel 7A.I was chatting with John Gruber after recordingthis morning’s Dithering, and he posited a very funny scenario: a Google executive takes the stage, pulls out an Android phone, and says, “Google, when is my mom’s flight landing?”That’s in reference to this demo in last year’s WWDC keynote:What would make this potential I/O prank effective is if it works, live and on-stage, not pre-recorded and (probably) doctored. It certainly seems possible, no? At a minimum, it surely seems more likely that Google could actually ship this feature.The Smartphone AI Value ChainYesterday’s ArticleApple AI’s Platform Pivot Potential, to the extent it referenced past Stratechery pieces, focused on the difference between Aggregators and Platforms. There are two other threads to pull on, however.First, go back to just last fall and the Article I wrote after the most recent Pixel launch. FromIntegration and Android:Yesterday Google announced its ninth iteration of Pixel phones, and as you might expect, the focus was on AI. It is also unsurprising that the foundation of Osterloh’s pitch at the beginning of the keynote was about integration. What was notable is that the integration he focused on actually didn’t have anything to do with Pixel at all, but rather Android and Google:We’re re-imagining the entire OS layer, putting Gemini right at the core of Android, the world’s most popular OS. You can see how we’re innovating with AI at every layer of the tech stack: from the infrastructure and the foundation models, to the OS and devices, and the apps and services you use every day. It’s a complete end-to-end experience that only Google can deliver. And I want to talk about the work we’re going to integrate it all together, with an integrated, helpful AI assistant for everyone. It changes how people interact with their mobile devices, and we’re building it right into Android.For years, we’ve been pursuing our vision of a mobile AI assistant that you can work with like you work with a real life personal assistant, but we’ve been limited by the bounds of what existing technologies can do. So we’ve completely rebuilt the personal assistant experience around our Gemini models, creating a novel kind of computing help for the Gemini era.The new Gemini assistant can go beyond understanding your words, to understanding your intent, so you can communicate more naturally. It can synthesize large amounts of information within seconds, and tackle complex tasks. It can draft messages for you, brainstorm with you, and give you ideas on how you can improve your work. With your permission, it can offer unparalleled personalized help, accessing relevant information across your Gmail Inbox, your Google calendar, and more. And it can reason across personal information and Google’s world knowledge, to provide just the right help and insight you need, and its only possible through advances we made in Gemini models over the last six months. It’s the biggest leap forward since we launched Google Assistant. Now we’re going to keep building responsibly, and pushing to make sure Gemini is available to everyone on every phone, and of course this starts with Android.This may seem obvious, and in many respects it is: Google is a services company, which means it is incentivized to serve the entire world, maximizing the leverage on its costs, and the best way to reach the entire world is via Android…my takeaway from yesterday’s event is [that] Android still matters most, and the integration Google is truly betting on is with the cloud…Google’s real bet is that owning the information stack matters more than owning the tech stack, particularly when you have the most capable cloud infrastructure to act on it. That is, of course, the same Android strategy as always; the bet is that AI does the hard work of making it more attractive to premium customers than it has to date.Like I said, this isn’t exactly a new strategy; the bet, however, is that Gemini is so useful — particularly if you use Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Photos, etc. — that Google’s long-running integration of web services and the smartphone OS actually becomes a reason to switch. This results in a point of integration that looks like this:An important implication of this approach is that by leaning into Android’s breadth Google cannot depend too deeply — or really at all — on the underlying hardware. This, by extension, means total dependence on the cloud — Google’s cloud, specifically. This is a good bet for Google, to be clear; their infrastructure is one of their biggest advantages in AI, and, asI noted after last spring’s Cloud Next keynote, this fits the company’s nature:Google is facing many of the same challenges after its decades long dominance of the open web: all of the products shown yesterday rely on a different business model than advertising, and to properly execute and deliver on them will require a cultural shift to supporting customers instead of tolerating them. What hasn’t changed — because it is the company’s nature, and thus cannot — is the reliance on scale and an overwhelming infrastructure advantage. That, more than anything, is what defines Google, and it was encouraging to see that so explicitly put forward as an advantage.That keynote was about enterprise and Google Cloud, but it very much signaled what the company announced at that Android event I excerpted above; the extra ingredient for the latter was Google being the interaction layer for AI, which befits their heritage as an Aggregator.Here’s the question for Apple: is this really a game they want to play, competing with Google in an arena that Google is perfectly suited for? Yes, Apple has cloud services, and yes, they are serviceable and not an embarrassment like they used to be, but they’re hardly the company’s forte. And sure, the company can make better guarantees about hardware capability, but to what end? So that Apple can spend less on infrastructure by using weaker processors?Apple’s point of integration has always been — and should aways be — hardware and the operating system, and that’s where AI should sit:The operating system is not Siri; that’s something that sits on top — otherwise it’s a constraint on the opportunity space, just as much as an overt dependence on a cloud service might be. That constraint might make sense if the goal is to run on as many devices as possible, like Android does, but that’s not Apple’s model! So why is it trying to play that game? Its opportunity is to enable a plethora of 3rd-party apps.Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsThis was the point of yesterday’s Article: the best way for Apple to take advantage of its point of integration and consistent high-end hardware capabilities is to enable developers to build compelling — and fully unrestricted — experiences using Apple’s pre-loaded models. These experiences wouldn’t have any marginal costs, because they are running locally; Apple could also rent out access to Private Cloud Compute, which would match up nicely with a subscription business model, which is great for Apple’s Services revenue line. Still, the big differentiator and focus for the company should be AI on the edge.And yet, while this strategy seems clear to me, I have serious questions as to whether Apple will ever go this route. I laid out the core reason why — a reason that also underlies Apple’s contentious relationship with developers — at the very beginning of Stratechery. From July 2013’sWhy Doesn’t Apple Enable Sustainable Businesses on the App Store?:Last week I transcribedsignificant portions of the Steve Jobs keynoteat Macworld Boston. In that keynote, he described how Apple was dependent on Adobe for many of its sales, and, more famously, introduces Apple’s “partnership” with Microsoft.Jobs’ closing speech, where he said that “We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose,” is well-known and still cited; however, I think the full quote is more telling (emphasis mine):You know,where we are right now, is, we’re shepherding some of the greatest assets in the computer industry. And,if we want to move forward and see Apple healthy and prospering again, we have to let go of a few things here.We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose. OK? We have to embrace a notion that for Apple to win Apple has to do a really good job, and if others are going to help us, that’s great, causewe need all the help we can get. And if we screw up and we don’t do a good job, it’s not somebody else’s fault. It’s our fault. So, I think that’s a very important perspective.I think,if we want Microsoft Office on the Mac, we better treat the company that puts it out with a little bit of gratitude. We like their software.So, the era of setting this up as a competition between Apple and Microsoft is over as far as I’m concerned.This is about getting healthy, and this is about Apple being able to make incredibly great contributions to the industry, to get healthy and prosper again.The emphasis brings home the point: Jobs’ statement was completely driven by Apple’s desperate state and the fact that Apple’s potential users cared more about Photoshop and Office than they did the Mac. For Jobs especially, it must have been humiliating.I had a unique vantage point into how Apple looks at this time in its history due to my time spent on theApple University team, and something that struck me was the powerful impact Apple’s near-death experience had on all those involved. ThatWired cover, and the fact Apple lost nearly a billion dollars in 1996, came up unprompted again and again. For those that were there, itstillfundamentally shapes how they view the world and how they make decisions.To be clear, this has tremendous value: there is nothing like near-deathto realizeyou have nothing to lose — a great recipe to avoiding disruption. In fact, one of my concerns for Apple is what will happen when all of the old guard is gone, leaving those who have only known success.But there have been downsides to this paranoia. Apple’s inefficient use of its cash is the most famous, but I think developer hostility is an aftereffect as well. I would go so far as to argue that that Boston keynote was at the root of Jobs’ opposition toany3rd-party apps on the iPhone, much less App Store policies that enable sustainable businesses. Never again would Apple be held hostage to an app that was bigger than Apple.Last fall, after the iPhones 16 launch, I titled my ArticleBoomer Apple; that was mostly in reference to the boringness of the shift to services, along with the observation that an increasingly amount of keynote time seemed to be spent on (very worthwhile!) features that mostly appealed people in their 50s and 60s. People like Apple’s executive team. Perhaps that is why this tweet from David Heinemeier Hansson jumped out at me:I explained above why Apple’s old guard — particularly the most senior members who remember the 90s — are an obstacle to unleashing developers. Implicit in “old guard”, however, is just plain “old”, and AI is very much a young person’s game. It requires such a different way of thinking and approach to product development, and it’s reasonable to wonder if Apple, at least at the leadership level, has it in them.To that end, I am somewhat surprised — and disappointed — that last week’s news about Siri’s delay did not include any news about executive retirements; there was newsin Januaryabout an executive shuffle in the AI team, but this failure strikes me as one that is significant enough to demand accountability.What I think is more important, however, is that Apple revisit all of its assumptions from the last 15 years, even though — or because — they were the most successful in the company’s history.The iPhone was a perfect product, so perfect that Apple could indulge its anti-developer sentiment while building a moat with 3rd-party apps. That created a foundation for Apple to have a differentiated offering in AI, one that allows them to be an Aggregator for foundation models, letting others make massive capital expenditures on their behalf, even as they dominate AI on the edge. But to truly seize that advantage the company needs to go back to being a platform, what they were when they were young. Can they remember how?This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.10: Apple and Its Intelligence GapsDateFriday, March 7, 2025AI Integration and ModularizationDateWednesday, May 29, 2024The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024←Apple AI’s Platform Pivot PotentialOpenAI API Updates, Steelmanning the API Business, The Problem With Both→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the streaming landscape and why I’m optimistic about YouTube. Then, onyesterday’s episode, we talked about Apple’s AI challenges, and why chatbots have — at least to date — been the killer app for AI.On to the Update:A Google I/O IdeaFromThe Verge, in February:Google’s next I/O developer conference will take place on May 20th and May 21st, the company announced today. The event will be “open to everyone online” and will include “livestreamed keynotes and sessions,” according to an FAQ. Like past years, there will also be an in-person component at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California…The last Google I/O kicked off on May 14th, 2024. The event was packed with a ton of announcements, including new Gemini AI features and models, the Project Astra AI assistant, its Veo generative AI video model, and a big AI-focused overhaul for Google Search. The 2023 edition of I/O was filled with AI news, too, but at that show, Google also announced the Pixel Fold, Pixel Tablet, and Pixel 7A.I was chatting with John Gruber after recordingthis morning’s Dithering, and he posited a very funny scenario: a Google executive takes the stage, pulls out an Android phone, and says, “Google, when is my mom’s flight landing?”That’s in reference to this demo in last year’s WWDC keynote:What would make this potential I/O prank effective is if it works, live and on-stage, not pre-recorded and (probably) doctored. It certainly seems possible, no? At a minimum, it surely seems more likely that Google could actually ship this feature.The Smartphone AI Value ChainYesterday’s ArticleApple AI’s Platform Pivot Potential, to the extent it referenced past Stratechery pieces, focused on the difference between Aggregators and Platforms. There are two other threads to pull on, however.First, go back to just last fall and the Article I wrote after the most recent Pixel launch. FromIntegration and Android:Yesterday Google announced its ninth iteration of Pixel phones, and as you might expect, the focus was on AI. It is also unsurprising that the foundation of Osterloh’s pitch at the beginning of the keynote was about integration. What was notable is that the integration he focused on actually didn’t have anything to do with Pixel at all, but rather Android and Google:We’re re-imagining the entire OS layer, putting Gemini right at the core of Android, the world’s most popular OS. You can see how we’re innovating with AI at every layer of the tech stack: from the infrastructure and the foundation models, to the OS and devices, and the apps and services you use every day. It’s a complete end-to-end experience that only Google can deliver. And I want to talk about the work we’re going to integrate it all together, with an integrated, helpful AI assistant for everyone. It changes how people interact with their mobile devices, and we’re building it right into Android.For years, we’ve been pursuing our vision of a mobile AI assistant that you can work with like you work with a real life personal assistant, but we’ve been limited by the bounds of what existing technologies can do. So we’ve completely rebuilt the personal assistant experience around our Gemini models, creating a novel kind of computing help for the Gemini era.The new Gemini assistant can go beyond understanding your words, to understanding your intent, so you can communicate more naturally. It can synthesize large amounts of information within seconds, and tackle complex tasks. It can draft messages for you, brainstorm with you, and give you ideas on how you can improve your work. With your permission, it can offer unparalleled personalized help, accessing relevant information across your Gmail Inbox, your Google calendar, and more. And it can reason across personal information and Google’s world knowledge, to provide just the right help and insight you need, and its only possible through advances we made in Gemini models over the last six months. It’s the biggest leap forward since we launched Google Assistant. Now we’re going to keep building responsibly, and pushing to make sure Gemini is available to everyone on every phone, and of course this starts with Android.This may seem obvious, and in many respects it is: Google is a services company, which means it is incentivized to serve the entire world, maximizing the leverage on its costs, and the best way to reach the entire world is via Android…my takeaway from yesterday’s event is [that] Android still matters most, and the integration Google is truly betting on is with the cloud…Google’s real bet is that owning the information stack matters more than owning the tech stack, particularly when you have the most capable cloud infrastructure to act on it. That is, of course, the same Android strategy as always; the bet is that AI does the hard work of making it more attractive to premium customers than it has to date.Like I said, this isn’t exactly a new strategy; the bet, however, is that Gemini is so useful — particularly if you use Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Photos, etc. — that Google’s long-running integration of web services and the smartphone OS actually becomes a reason to switch. This results in a point of integration that looks like this:An important implication of this approach is that by leaning into Android’s breadth Google cannot depend too deeply — or really at all — on the underlying hardware. This, by extension, means total dependence on the cloud — Google’s cloud, specifically. This is a good bet for Google, to be clear; their infrastructure is one of their biggest advantages in AI, and, asI noted after last spring’s Cloud Next keynote, this fits the company’s nature:Google is facing many of the same challenges after its decades long dominance of the open web: all of the products shown yesterday rely on a different business model than advertising, and to properly execute and deliver on them will require a cultural shift to supporting customers instead of tolerating them. What hasn’t changed — because it is the company’s nature, and thus cannot — is the reliance on scale and an overwhelming infrastructure advantage. That, more than anything, is what defines Google, and it was encouraging to see that so explicitly put forward as an advantage.That keynote was about enterprise and Google Cloud, but it very much signaled what the company announced at that Android event I excerpted above; the extra ingredient for the latter was Google being the interaction layer for AI, which befits their heritage as an Aggregator.Here’s the question for Apple: is this really a game they want to play, competing with Google in an arena that Google is perfectly suited for? Yes, Apple has cloud services, and yes, they are serviceable and not an embarrassment like they used to be, but they’re hardly the company’s forte. And sure, the company can make better guarantees about hardware capability, but to what end? So that Apple can spend less on infrastructure by using weaker processors?Apple’s point of integration has always been — and should aways be — hardware and the operating system, and that’s where AI should sit:The operating system is not Siri; that’s something that sits on top — otherwise it’s a constraint on the opportunity space, just as much as an overt dependence on a cloud service might be. That constraint might make sense if the goal is to run on as many devices as possible, like Android does, but that’s not Apple’s model! So why is it trying to play that game? Its opportunity is to enable a plethora of 3rd-party apps.Apple’s Developer Hang-UpsThis was the point of yesterday’s Article: the best way for Apple to take advantage of its point of integration and consistent high-end hardware capabilities is to enable developers to build compelling — and fully unrestricted — experiences using Apple’s pre-loaded models. These experiences wouldn’t have any marginal costs, because they are running locally; Apple could also rent out access to Private Cloud Compute, which would match up nicely with a subscription business model, which is great for Apple’s Services revenue line. Still, the big differentiator and focus for the company should be AI on the edge.And yet, while this strategy seems clear to me, I have serious questions as to whether Apple will ever go this route. I laid out the core reason why — a reason that also underlies Apple’s contentious relationship with developers — at the very beginning of Stratechery. From July 2013’sWhy Doesn’t Apple Enable Sustainable Businesses on the App Store?:Last week I transcribedsignificant portions of the Steve Jobs keynoteat Macworld Boston. In that keynote, he described how Apple was dependent on Adobe for many of its sales, and, more famously, introduces Apple’s “partnership” with Microsoft.Jobs’ closing speech, where he said that “We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose,” is well-known and still cited; however, I think the full quote is more telling (emphasis mine):You know,where we are right now, is, we’re shepherding some of the greatest assets in the computer industry. And,if we want to move forward and see Apple healthy and prospering again, we have to let go of a few things here.We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose. OK? We have to embrace a notion that for Apple to win Apple has to do a really good job, and if others are going to help us, that’s great, causewe need all the help we can get. And if we screw up and we don’t do a good job, it’s not somebody else’s fault. It’s our fault. So, I think that’s a very important perspective.I think,if we want Microsoft Office on the Mac, we better treat the company that puts it out with a little bit of gratitude. We like their software.So, the era of setting this up as a competition between Apple and Microsoft is over as far as I’m concerned.This is about getting healthy, and this is about Apple being able to make incredibly great contributions to the industry, to get healthy and prosper again.The emphasis brings home the point: Jobs’ statement was completely driven by Apple’s desperate state and the fact that Apple’s potential users cared more about Photoshop and Office than they did the Mac. For Jobs especially, it must have been humiliating.I had a unique vantage point into how Apple looks at this time in its history due to my time spent on theApple University team, and something that struck me was the powerful impact Apple’s near-death experience had on all those involved. ThatWired cover, and the fact Apple lost nearly a billion dollars in 1996, came up unprompted again and again. For those that were there, itstillfundamentally shapes how they view the world and how they make decisions.To be clear, this has tremendous value: there is nothing like near-deathto realizeyou have nothing to lose — a great recipe to avoiding disruption. In fact, one of my concerns for Apple is what will happen when all of the old guard is gone, leaving those who have only known success.But there have been downsides to this paranoia. Apple’s inefficient use of its cash is the most famous, but I think developer hostility is an aftereffect as well. I would go so far as to argue that that Boston keynote was at the root of Jobs’ opposition toany3rd-party apps on the iPhone, much less App Store policies that enable sustainable businesses. Never again would Apple be held hostage to an app that was bigger than Apple.Last fall, after the iPhones 16 launch, I titled my ArticleBoomer Apple; that was mostly in reference to the boringness of the shift to services, along with the observation that an increasingly amount of keynote time seemed to be spent on (very worthwhile!) features that mostly appealed people in their 50s and 60s. People like Apple’s executive team. Perhaps that is why this tweet from David Heinemeier Hansson jumped out at me:I explained above why Apple’s old guard — particularly the most senior members who remember the 90s — are an obstacle to unleashing developers. Implicit in “old guard”, however, is just plain “old”, and AI is very much a young person’s game. It requires such a different way of thinking and approach to product development, and it’s reasonable to wonder if Apple, at least at the leadership level, has it in them.To that end, I am somewhat surprised — and disappointed — that last week’s news about Siri’s delay did not include any news about executive retirements; there was newsin Januaryabout an executive shuffle in the AI team, but this failure strikes me as one that is significant enough to demand accountability.What I think is more important, however, is that Apple revisit all of its assumptions from the last 15 years, even though — or because — they were the most successful in the company’s history.The iPhone was a perfect product, so perfect that Apple could indulge its anti-developer sentiment while building a moat with 3rd-party apps. That created a foundation for Apple to have a differentiated offering in AI, one that allows them to be an Aggregator for foundation models, letting others make massive capital expenditures on their behalf, even as they dominate AI on the edge. But to truly seize that advantage the company needs to go back to being a platform, what they were when they were young. Can they remember how?This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussed the streaming landscape and why I’m optimistic about YouTube. Then, onyesterday’s episode, we talked about Apple’s AI challenges, and why chatbots have — at least to date — been the killer app for AI. Google’s next I/O developer conference will take place on May 20th and May 21st, the company announced today. The event will be “open to everyone online” and will include “livestreamed keynotes and sessions,” according to an FAQ. Like past years, there will also be an in-person component at the Shoreline Amphitheatre in Mountain View, California… The last Google I/O kicked off on May 14th, 2024. The event was packed with a ton of announcements, including new Gemini AI features and models, the Project Astra AI assistant, its Veo generative AI video model, and a big AI-focused overhaul for Google Search. The 2023 edition of I/O was filled with AI news, too, but at that show, Google also announced the Pixel Fold, Pixel Tablet, and Pixel 7A. I was chatting with John Gruber after recordingthis morning’s Dithering, and he posited a very funny scenario: a Google executive takes the stage, pulls out an Android phone, and says, “Google, when is my mom’s flight landing?” What would make this potential I/O prank effective is if it works, live and on-stage, not pre-recorded and (probably) doctored. It certainly seems possible, no? At a minimum, it surely seems more likely that Google could actually ship this feature. Yesterday’s ArticleApple AI’s Platform Pivot Potential, to the extent it referenced past Stratechery pieces, focused on the difference between Aggregators and Platforms. There are two other threads to pull on, however. Yesterday Google announced its ninth iteration of Pixel phones, and as you might expect, the focus was on AI. It is also unsurprising that the foundation of Osterloh’s pitch at the beginning of the keynote was about integration. What was notable is that the integration he focused on actually didn’t have anything to do with Pixel at all, but rather Android and Google: We’re re-imagining the entire OS layer, putting Gemini right at the core of Android, the world’s most popular OS. You can see how we’re innovating with AI at every layer of the tech stack: from the infrastructure and the foundation models, to the OS and devices, and the apps and services you use every day. It’s a complete end-to-end experience that only Google can deliver. And I want to talk about the work we’re going to integrate it all together, with an integrated, helpful AI assistant for everyone. It changes how people interact with their mobile devices, and we’re building it right into Android. For years, we’ve been pursuing our vision of a mobile AI assistant that you can work with like you work with a real life personal assistant, but we’ve been limited by the bounds of what existing technologies can do. So we’ve completely rebuilt the personal assistant experience around our Gemini models, creating a novel kind of computing help for the Gemini era. The new Gemini assistant can go beyond understanding your words, to understanding your intent, so you can communicate more naturally. It can synthesize large amounts of information within seconds, and tackle complex tasks. It can draft messages for you, brainstorm with you, and give you ideas on how you can improve your work. With your permission, it can offer unparalleled personalized help, accessing relevant information across your Gmail Inbox, your Google calendar, and more. And it can reason across personal information and Google’s world knowledge, to provide just the right help and insight you need, and its only possible through advances we made in Gemini models over the last six months. It’s the biggest leap forward since we launched Google Assistant. Now we’re going to keep building responsibly, and pushing to make sure Gemini is available to everyone on every phone, and of course this starts with Android. This may seem obvious, and in many respects it is: Google is a services company, which means it is incentivized to serve the entire world, maximizing the leverage on its costs, and the best way to reach the entire world is via Android…my takeaway from yesterday’s event is [that] Android still matters most, and the integration Google is truly betting on is with the cloud…Google’s real bet is that owning the information stack matters more than owning the tech stack, particularly when you have the most capable cloud infrastructure to act on it. That is, of course, the same Android strategy as always; the bet is that AI does the hard work of making it more attractive to premium customers than it has to date. Like I said, this isn’t exactly a new strategy; the bet, however, is that Gemini is so useful — particularly if you use Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Photos, etc. — that Google’s long-running integration of web services and the smartphone OS actually becomes a reason to switch. This results in a point of integration that looks like this: An important implication of this approach is that by leaning into Android’s breadth Google cannot depend too deeply — or really at all — on the underlying hardware. This, by extension, means total dependence on the cloud — Google’s cloud, specifically. This is a good bet for Google, to be clear; their infrastructure is one of their biggest advantages in AI, and, asI noted after last spring’s Cloud Next keynote, this fits the company’s nature: Google is facing many of the same challenges after its decades long dominance of the open web: all of the products shown yesterday rely on a different business model than advertising, and to properly execute and deliver on them will require a cultural shift to supporting customers instead of tolerating them. What hasn’t changed — because it is the company’s nature, and thus cannot — is the reliance on scale and an overwhelming infrastructure advantage. That, more than anything, is what defines Google, and it was encouraging to see that so explicitly put forward as an advantage. That keynote was about enterprise and Google Cloud, but it very much signaled what the company announced at that Android event I excerpted above; the extra ingredient for the latter was Google being the interaction layer for AI, which befits their heritage as an Aggregator. Here’s the question for Apple: is this really a game they want to play, competing with Google in an arena that Google is perfectly suited for? Yes, Apple has cloud services, and yes, they are serviceable and not an embarrassment like they used to be, but they’re hardly the company’s forte. And sure, the company can make better guarantees about hardware capability, but to what end? So that Apple can spend less on infrastructure by using weaker processors? The operating system is not Siri; that’s something that sits on top — otherwise it’s a constraint on the opportunity space, just as much as an overt dependence on a cloud service might be. That constraint might make sense if the goal is to run on as many devices as possible, like Android does, but that’s not Apple’s model! So why is it trying to play that game? Its opportunity is to enable a plethora of 3rd-party apps. This was the point of yesterday’s Article: the best way for Apple to take advantage of its point of integration and consistent high-end hardware capabilities is to enable developers to build compelling — and fully unrestricted — experiences using Apple’s pre-loaded models. These experiences wouldn’t have any marginal costs, because they are running locally; Apple could also rent out access to Private Cloud Compute, which would match up nicely with a subscription business model, which is great for Apple’s Services revenue line. Still, the big differentiator and focus for the company should be AI on the edge. And yet, while this strategy seems clear to me, I have serious questions as to whether Apple will ever go this route. I laid out the core reason why — a reason that also underlies Apple’s contentious relationship with developers — at the very beginning of Stratechery. From July 2013’sWhy Doesn’t Apple Enable Sustainable Businesses on the App Store?: Last week I transcribedsignificant portions of the Steve Jobs keynoteat Macworld Boston. In that keynote, he described how Apple was dependent on Adobe for many of its sales, and, more famously, introduces Apple’s “partnership” with Microsoft. Jobs’ closing speech, where he said that “We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose,” is well-known and still cited; however, I think the full quote is more telling (emphasis mine): You know,where we are right now, is, we’re shepherding some of the greatest assets in the computer industry. And,if we want to move forward and see Apple healthy and prospering again, we have to let go of a few things here. We have to let go of this notion that for Apple to win Microsoft has to lose. OK? We have to embrace a notion that for Apple to win Apple has to do a really good job, and if others are going to help us, that’s great, causewe need all the help we can get. And if we screw up and we don’t do a good job, it’s not somebody else’s fault. It’s our fault. So, I think that’s a very important perspective. So, the era of setting this up as a competition between Apple and Microsoft is over as far as I’m concerned.This is about getting healthy, and this is about Apple being able to make incredibly great contributions to the industry, to get healthy and prosper again. The emphasis brings home the point: Jobs’ statement was completely driven by Apple’s desperate state and the fact that Apple’s potential users cared more about Photoshop and Office than they did the Mac. For Jobs especially, it must have been humiliating. I had a unique vantage point into how Apple looks at this time in its history due to my time spent on theApple University team, and something that struck me was the powerful impact Apple’s near-death experience had on all those involved. ThatWired cover, and the fact Apple lost nearly a billion dollars in 1996, came up unprompted again and again. For those that were there, itstillfundamentally shapes how they view the world and how they make decisions. To be clear, this has tremendous value: there is nothing like near-deathto realizeyou have nothing to lose — a great recipe to avoiding disruption. In fact, one of my concerns for Apple is what will happen when all of the old guard is gone, leaving those who have only known success. But there have been downsides to this paranoia. Apple’s inefficient use of its cash is the most famous, but I think developer hostility is an aftereffect as well. I would go so far as to argue that that Boston keynote was at the root of Jobs’ opposition toany3rd-party apps on the iPhone, much less App Store policies that enable sustainable businesses. Never again would Apple be held hostage to an app that was bigger than Apple. Last fall, after the iPhones 16 launch, I titled my ArticleBoomer Apple; that was mostly in reference to the boringness of the shift to services, along with the observation that an increasingly amount of keynote time seemed to be spent on (very worthwhile!) features that mostly appealed people in their 50s and 60s. People like Apple’s executive team. Perhaps that is why this tweet from David Heinemeier Hansson jumped out at me: I explained above why Apple’s old guard — particularly the most senior members who remember the 90s — are an obstacle to unleashing developers. Implicit in “old guard”, however, is just plain “old”, and AI is very much a young person’s game. It requires such a different way of thinking and approach to product development, and it’s reasonable to wonder if Apple, at least at the leadership level, has it in them. To that end, I am somewhat surprised — and disappointed — that last week’s news about Siri’s delay did not include any news about executive retirements; there was newsin Januaryabout an executive shuffle in the AI team, but this failure strikes me as one that is significant enough to demand accountability. What I think is more important, however, is that Apple revisit all of its assumptions from the last 15 years, even though — or because — they were the most successful in the company’s history.The iPhone was a perfect product, so perfect that Apple could indulge its anti-developer sentiment while building a moat with 3rd-party apps. That created a foundation for Apple to have a differentiated offering in AI, one that allows them to be an Aggregator for foundation models, letting others make massive capital expenditures on their behalf, even as they dominate AI on the edge. But to truly seize that advantage the company needs to go back to being a platform, what they were when they were young. Can they remember how? The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025