# [PODCAST] Claude 4, Anthropic Agents, Human-AI Agents

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/claude-4-anthropic-agents-human-ai-agents/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.ZbCnjtGetfE9KR1H0p_IBtdWxAnBbqxV7qwBC3YiiiAQSehCfUUczRFxVQZyXgRDaibCUijpvoVETaXhMAweG5NSSfnXyxFOkqZBmten6c2hnAnppGr7KAJyo6W3j6AIg7IeHzDruW9QJRuUTpESki1OBlLpW9LPFF-LRfL6OMnJDJKmQRLlW_S2yjhZnnd6LSbdhHFWFxlFhzL4O8xr3DrMMAt8CbTFuFo9FfMCe-Lo-jxEvKQfV18G4ZLIMcalhkLhRPl6hmJL4gL4wc7khbnC5GufHJKLIou6p2AU4YU8oajH6Dyzrciy4vichxTwKHZ-XxAJBXk0OejCAwiwzA
**Atlas ID**: 229571
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.884026

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirClaude 4, Anthropic Agents, Human-AI AgentsTuesday, May 27, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Memorial Day — and my gratitude to all who have served.OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed OpenAI’s acquisition of io and potential entry into the hardware business, as well as a retrospective about Jony Ive’s career at Apple.On to the Update:Claude 4FromCNBC:Anthropic, the Amazon-backed OpenAI rival, on Thursday launched its most powerful group of artificial intelligence models yet: Claude 4. The company said the two models, called Claude Opus 4 and Claude Sonnet 4, are defining a “new standard” when it comes to AI agents and “can analyze thousands of data sources, execute long-running tasks, write human-quality content, and perform complex actions,” per a release…Anthropic stopped investing in chatbots at the end of last year and has instead focused on improving Claude’s ability to do complex tasks like research and coding, even writing whole code bases, according to Jared Kaplan, Anthropic’s chief science officer. He also acknowledged that “the more complex the task is, the more risk there is that the model is going to kind of go off the rails … and we’re really focused on addressing that so that people can really delegate a lot of work at once to our models.”Anthropic said Claude Opus 4 was the “best coding model in the world” and could autonomously work for nearly a full corporate workday — seven hours. Both models can search the web to complete tasks on a user’s behalf and alternate between reasoning and tool use, according to Anthropic. The company also said that when given access to local files, they can extract and save “key facts to maintain continuity and build tacit knowledge over time.”“I do a lot of writing with Claude, and I think prior to Opus 4 and Sonnet 4, I was mostly using the models as a thinking partner, but still doing most of the writing myself,” Mike Krieger, Anthropic’s chief product officer, said in an interview. “And they’ve crossed this threshold where now most of my writing is actually … Opus mostly, and it now is unrecognizable from my writing.” Krieger added, “I love that we’re kind of pushing the frontier on two sides. Like one is the coding piece and agentic behavior overall, and that’s powering a lot of these coding startups. … But then also, we’re pushing the frontier on how these models can actually learn from and then be a really useful writing partner, too.”I trust my friends at CNBC will forgive the long excerpt (everyone please go and click on the article), but I thought that some of these quotes they got from Kaplan and Krieger were super interesting.Start with the fact that Claude is in an interesting place. Claude 3.5 was widely regarded as a huge leap forward in terms of coding in particular, and helped drive the huge growth in AI IDE’s like Cursor. Both Anthropic and OpenAI, however, face a real threat in Google’s rapidly improving Gemini models, which are both capable and significantly cheaper. This makes products like Cursor both an opportunity and a risk: first, customers could become loyal to the product instead of the model, and second, it is trivial to switch out the model to something better and/or cheaper. What does help Anthropic is that Claude is also the state-of-the-art option for AWS customers, and is also available on Google Cloud Platform; Gemini is only on GCP, and OpenAI is the only state-of-the-art option on Azure.What isn’t competitive — and which Kaplan acknowledged in this CNBC article — is the consumer space, at least when it comes to chatbots. ChatGPT has won, and it’s hard to see that changing. You saw an acknowledgment of that reality from Google when, earlier this year,they pulled Gemini out of the Google appandthe shift in focus to AI Mode and the Search funnel; now it appears that Anthropic is throwing in the towel as well. And, I would note, OpenAI is the deserved winner: not only were they first, but they alsohad the best products.What unifies both of these use cases, at least to date, is that they are a form of ongoing human augmentation; you ask the AI to do something, or ask it a question, and it does the work or the research, and then you utilize or verify the output for whatever project you are working on. What Anthropic is clearly focused on, however, are workflows that take the human out of the loop: you tell the AI to do something, it does it, and while you can verify the results, ideally you get to the point where you mostly don’t need to.Anthropic AgentsI am talking, of course, about agents, and I actually thought one of the most useful examples of what an agent is came inmy interview earlier this year with Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg:MZ:I basically think that there are four major product and business opportunities that are the things that we’re looking at and I’ll start from the most simplest and probably the ones that are the easiest to do to the things that are further afield from where we are today. So most basic of the four. Use AI to make it so that the ads business goes a lot better. Improve recommendations, make it so that any business that basically wants to achieve some business outcome can just come to us, not have to produce any content, not have to know anything about their customers. Can just say, “Here’s the business outcome that I want, here’s what I’m willing to pay, I’m going to connect you to my bank account, I will pay you for as many business outcomes as you can achieve”. Right?Best black box of all time.MZ:Yeah, it is basically like the ultimate business agent, and if you think about the pieces of advertising, there’s content creation, the creative, there’s the targeting, and there’s the measurement, and probably the first pieces that we started building were the measurement to basically make it so that we can effectively have a business that’s organized around when we’re delivering results for people instead of just showing them impressions.Outcomes, yeah.MZ:And then, we start off with basic targeting. Over the last 5 to 10 years, we’ve basically gotten to the point where we effectively discourage businesses from trying to limit the targeting…If they really want to limit it, we have that as an option. But basically, we believe at this point that we are just better at finding the people who are going to resonate with your product than you are. And so, there’s that piece.But there’s still the creative piece, which is basically businesses come to us and they have a sense of what their message is or what their video is or their image, and that’s pretty hard to produce and I think we’re pretty close.And the more they produce, the better. Because then, you can test it, see what works. Well, what if you could just produce an infinite number?MZ:Yeah, or we just make it for them. I mean, obviously, it’ll always be the case that they can come with a suggestion or here’s the creative that they want, especially if they really want to dial it in. But in general, we’re going to get to a point where you’re a business, you come to us, you tell us what your objective is, you connect to your bank account, you don’t need any creative, you don’t need any targeting demographic, you don’t need any measurement, except to be able to read the results that we spit out. I think that’s going to be huge, I think it is a redefinition of the category of advertising.I like this example for a few reasons. First, a frequent mistake that is made by technologists is getting hung up on the technology itself; ergo, obviously an agent must be something that uses an LLM! In fact, however, Meta’s current targeting and measurement capabilities arenotusing LLMs; yet Meta’s ad platform is a real product that real businesses can use to the tune of billions of real dollars that basically can be given a task (acquire customers) and can go out and complete that task without any human involvement. How is that not an agent already — and the most successful agent in the world, at that?Second, Zuckerberg is talking about adding LLMs to this workflow to make it even more end-to-end: in the future businesses can simply ask for business results, without needing to go to the trouble of making creative; this, per the previous point, will make for a better agent, not suddenly transform this workflow from non-agentic to agentic. It also suggests that some of the most compelling use cases will in fact incorporate LLMs into traditional computing — or augment LLMs with traditional computing — as opposed to being something LLMs do on their own.Indeed, a big part of what makes Claude 4 workflows work is exactly this sort of augmentation; fromArs Technica:To shore up some of those shortcomings, Anthropic built memory capabilities into both new Claude 4 models, allowing them to maintain external files for storing key information across long sessions. When developers provide access to local files, the models can create and update “memory files” to track progress and things they deem important over time. Albert compared this to how humans take notes during extended work sessions.Both Claude 4 models introduce what Anthropic calls “extended thinking with tool use,” a new beta feature allowing the models to alternate between simulated reasoning and using external tools like web search, similar to what OpenAI’s o3 and 04-mini-high AI models currently do in ChatGPT. While Claude 3.7 Sonnet already had strong tool use capabilities, the new models can now interleave simulated reasoning and tool calling in a single response.This is exactly how I predicted these kinds of workflows would evolve in 2023’sChatGPT Gets a Computer: probabilistic LLMs are much closer to human-style thinking than traditional computers — that’s why they are so amazing — but that also means they need traditional deterministic computing to solve problems. That post, to be clear, was about ChatGPT plug-ins, which never really took off, but the overall concept does appear to be exactly what Anthropic is going for.This, by extension, means that Anthropic’s goal is what I wrote about in last fall’sEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AI:Computing didn’t start with the personal computer, but rather with the replacement of the back office. Or, to put it in rather more dire terms, the initial value in computing wasn’t created by helping Boomers do their job more efficiently, but rather by replacing entire swathes of them completely…Agents aren’t copilots; they are replacements. They do work in place of humans — think call centers and the like, to start — and they have all of the advantages of software: always available, and scalable up-and-down with demand…Benioff isn’t talking about makingemployeesmore productive, but rathercompanies; the verb that applies to employees is “augmented”, which sounds much nicer than “replaced”; the ultimate goal is stated as well: business results. That right there is tech’s third philosophy: improving the bottom line for large enterprises.Notice how well this framing applies to the mainframe wave of computing: accounting and ERP software made companies more productive and drove positive business results; the employees that were “augmented” were managers who got far more accurate reports much more quickly, while the employees who used to do that work were replaced. Critically, the decision about whether or not to make this change did not depend on rank-and-file employees changing how they worked, but for executives to decide to take the plunge.This strikes me as a very worthwhile goal, at least from a business perspective. OpenAI is busy owning the consumer space, while Google and its best-in-class infrastructure and leading models struggles with product; Anthropic’s task is to build the best agentproductin the world, including not just state-of-the-art models but all of the deterministic computing scaffolding that actually makes them replacement-level workers. After all, Anthropic’s API pricing may look expensive relative to Google, but it looks very cheap relative to a human salary.Human-AI AgentsIt remains to be seen how far away we truly are from agents that are reliable enough to be left alone to do work, and, needless to say, there are major second-order effects that will result from this being the case. In the meantime, however, I think there is a massive AI-enabled opportunity that is currently being missed by all of the major model-makers, or at least their product teams: human-AI agents.Right now all of the consumer-focused AI interfaces — i.e. the chatbots — are built for a single user (ChatGPT’s Teams subscriptionjust refers to billing and administration, not usage). There is a huge productivity unlock, however, that happens when you make them multiuser. The following is a personal example that I discovered last week.I do, as listeners of the Stratechery podcast know, have an assistant namedDaman; he reads non-Stratechery excerpts in Updates and Articles. That’s only a part of his job, however, as Daman assists me with customer support, accounting, scheduling, etc. (all of the actual writing of Stratechery, including research, is done by me, although Daman does maintain spreadsheets of company earnings).Now Daman is a smart and conscientious guy, and I feel fortunate to employ him; however, when it comes to researching and making complex decisions, I am a bit of a control freak: even if I asked him to research something, I know I would probably just go and do my own research. I have high confidence in my Google-fu, and there are so many considerations that I might be thinking about or notice that someone who is not me wouldn’t think about.ChatGPT, however, completely changes this dynamic. Last week Daman did some initial research for a complex decision using ChatGPT; he then shared a link to his chat, which meant I could go back to the beginning and trace his assumptions, the back-and-forth of his conversation, and then continue the conversation on my side. After diving deeper into various options — and correcting a few errant assumptions from the beginning — I came up with a promising course of action and, instead of having to explain it all to Daman to follow up on, I simply shared a link to my version of the chat back to him for reference (I asked Daman to read this section before posting, and he said he had already gone back and expanded on my instructions with much more confidence than he might have otherwise, because he knows I can look back at his conversation).Notice how this differs from the old “Google-and-remember” model:First, Daman using ChatGPT is a lot closer to my using ChatGPT than Daman using Google is to my using Google. I don’t say this to slight Daman; I honestly feel I’m probably in the top 0.01% of Google power users in the world, given my arcane and daily-honed ability to direct it to find exactly what I’m looking for in an increasingly unusable web of SEO slop. ChatGPT results do, of course, vary considerably based on your prompt, but that’s more a function of the pre-existing knowledge you bring to a question; in this case Daman’s starting point was the same as mine, and so his usage was the same as mine.Second, Daman’s ChatGPT usage was auditable: I could see the exact prompt he started with, ChatGPT’s response, etc., in a way I simply could not do if Daman used Google. That meant I knew the underlying assumptions that went into the conversation, the potential missed angles, etc.Third, the fact that ChatGPT doesnothave RAM-like memory, but rather simulates on ongoing conversation by passing the entire conversation-to-that-point in the context window and then answering anew, meant that I could seamlessly take over Daman’s chat. In other words, a seeming weakness of LLMs — the fact that the only “memory” is the context window — actually made them distinctly better for this use case.I was absolutely blown away by how well this worked. Instead of replacing Daman with an AI agent, the above characteristics mean I accidentally stumbled into a way to supercharge Daman’s value to me: he’s my human AI agent!In fact, this is so effective that I wonder if enterprises everywhere are thinking about AI all wrong, at least in the short-term. There is a lot of focus on one person having a lot of agents under their control, and the allure of that — both financially and in terms of productivity — are clear. It’s possible, however, that a lot of the productivity gains are available now. A team leader can direct people (1) who use the same tools as them with a similar effectiveness (2) in an auditable way (3) and seamlessly seamlessly extend or augment their work while retaining context. That’s pretty powerful!The reason why I think this is novel and worth writing about is because none of the chatbots support multi-user. Daman and I hacked this together using the “Share Chat” feature, but this would be better if multi-user chats were possible by default. And, more broadly, the real unlocks from AI are not going to come from working the way we do but better; it will come from changing the way we work, and here at Stratechery we have started doing exactly that.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.22: What LLMs Could Be in the WorkplaceDateFriday, May 30, 20252025.28: Tech Philosophy and AI StrategyDateFriday, July 11, 2025Tech Philosophy and AI OpportunityDateTuesday, July 8, 2025←2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyThe ESPN Streaming Service, The Status of U.S. Sports Rights, The Danger of Intentionality→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Claude 4, Anthropic Agents, Human-AI AgentsTuesday, May 27, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Memorial Day — and my gratitude to all who have served.OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed OpenAI’s acquisition of io and potential entry into the hardware business, as well as a retrospective about Jony Ive’s career at Apple.On to the Update:Claude 4FromCNBC:Anthropic, the Amazon-backed OpenAI rival, on Thursday launched its most powerful group of artificial intelligence models yet: Claude 4. The company said the two models, called Claude Opus 4 and Claude Sonnet 4, are defining a “new standard” when it comes to AI agents and “can analyze thousands of data sources, execute long-running tasks, write human-quality content, and perform complex actions,” per a release…Anthropic stopped investing in chatbots at the end of last year and has instead focused on improving Claude’s ability to do complex tasks like research and coding, even writing whole code bases, according to Jared Kaplan, Anthropic’s chief science officer. He also acknowledged that “the more complex the task is, the more risk there is that the model is going to kind of go off the rails … and we’re really focused on addressing that so that people can really delegate a lot of work at once to our models.”Anthropic said Claude Opus 4 was the “best coding model in the world” and could autonomously work for nearly a full corporate workday — seven hours. Both models can search the web to complete tasks on a user’s behalf and alternate between reasoning and tool use, according to Anthropic. The company also said that when given access to local files, they can extract and save “key facts to maintain continuity and build tacit knowledge over time.”“I do a lot of writing with Claude, and I think prior to Opus 4 and Sonnet 4, I was mostly using the models as a thinking partner, but still doing most of the writing myself,” Mike Krieger, Anthropic’s chief product officer, said in an interview. “And they’ve crossed this threshold where now most of my writing is actually … Opus mostly, and it now is unrecognizable from my writing.” Krieger added, “I love that we’re kind of pushing the frontier on two sides. Like one is the coding piece and agentic behavior overall, and that’s powering a lot of these coding startups. … But then also, we’re pushing the frontier on how these models can actually learn from and then be a really useful writing partner, too.”I trust my friends at CNBC will forgive the long excerpt (everyone please go and click on the article), but I thought that some of these quotes they got from Kaplan and Krieger were super interesting.Start with the fact that Claude is in an interesting place. Claude 3.5 was widely regarded as a huge leap forward in terms of coding in particular, and helped drive the huge growth in AI IDE’s like Cursor. Both Anthropic and OpenAI, however, face a real threat in Google’s rapidly improving Gemini models, which are both capable and significantly cheaper. This makes products like Cursor both an opportunity and a risk: first, customers could become loyal to the product instead of the model, and second, it is trivial to switch out the model to something better and/or cheaper. What does help Anthropic is that Claude is also the state-of-the-art option for AWS customers, and is also available on Google Cloud Platform; Gemini is only on GCP, and OpenAI is the only state-of-the-art option on Azure.What isn’t competitive — and which Kaplan acknowledged in this CNBC article — is the consumer space, at least when it comes to chatbots. ChatGPT has won, and it’s hard to see that changing. You saw an acknowledgment of that reality from Google when, earlier this year,they pulled Gemini out of the Google appandthe shift in focus to AI Mode and the Search funnel; now it appears that Anthropic is throwing in the towel as well. And, I would note, OpenAI is the deserved winner: not only were they first, but they alsohad the best products.What unifies both of these use cases, at least to date, is that they are a form of ongoing human augmentation; you ask the AI to do something, or ask it a question, and it does the work or the research, and then you utilize or verify the output for whatever project you are working on. What Anthropic is clearly focused on, however, are workflows that take the human out of the loop: you tell the AI to do something, it does it, and while you can verify the results, ideally you get to the point where you mostly don’t need to.Anthropic AgentsI am talking, of course, about agents, and I actually thought one of the most useful examples of what an agent is came inmy interview earlier this year with Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg:MZ:I basically think that there are four major product and business opportunities that are the things that we’re looking at and I’ll start from the most simplest and probably the ones that are the easiest to do to the things that are further afield from where we are today. So most basic of the four. Use AI to make it so that the ads business goes a lot better. Improve recommendations, make it so that any business that basically wants to achieve some business outcome can just come to us, not have to produce any content, not have to know anything about their customers. Can just say, “Here’s the business outcome that I want, here’s what I’m willing to pay, I’m going to connect you to my bank account, I will pay you for as many business outcomes as you can achieve”. Right?Best black box of all time.MZ:Yeah, it is basically like the ultimate business agent, and if you think about the pieces of advertising, there’s content creation, the creative, there’s the targeting, and there’s the measurement, and probably the first pieces that we started building were the measurement to basically make it so that we can effectively have a business that’s organized around when we’re delivering results for people instead of just showing them impressions.Outcomes, yeah.MZ:And then, we start off with basic targeting. Over the last 5 to 10 years, we’ve basically gotten to the point where we effectively discourage businesses from trying to limit the targeting…If they really want to limit it, we have that as an option. But basically, we believe at this point that we are just better at finding the people who are going to resonate with your product than you are. And so, there’s that piece.But there’s still the creative piece, which is basically businesses come to us and they have a sense of what their message is or what their video is or their image, and that’s pretty hard to produce and I think we’re pretty close.And the more they produce, the better. Because then, you can test it, see what works. Well, what if you could just produce an infinite number?MZ:Yeah, or we just make it for them. I mean, obviously, it’ll always be the case that they can come with a suggestion or here’s the creative that they want, especially if they really want to dial it in. But in general, we’re going to get to a point where you’re a business, you come to us, you tell us what your objective is, you connect to your bank account, you don’t need any creative, you don’t need any targeting demographic, you don’t need any measurement, except to be able to read the results that we spit out. I think that’s going to be huge, I think it is a redefinition of the category of advertising.I like this example for a few reasons. First, a frequent mistake that is made by technologists is getting hung up on the technology itself; ergo, obviously an agent must be something that uses an LLM! In fact, however, Meta’s current targeting and measurement capabilities arenotusing LLMs; yet Meta’s ad platform is a real product that real businesses can use to the tune of billions of real dollars that basically can be given a task (acquire customers) and can go out and complete that task without any human involvement. How is that not an agent already — and the most successful agent in the world, at that?Second, Zuckerberg is talking about adding LLMs to this workflow to make it even more end-to-end: in the future businesses can simply ask for business results, without needing to go to the trouble of making creative; this, per the previous point, will make for a better agent, not suddenly transform this workflow from non-agentic to agentic. It also suggests that some of the most compelling use cases will in fact incorporate LLMs into traditional computing — or augment LLMs with traditional computing — as opposed to being something LLMs do on their own.Indeed, a big part of what makes Claude 4 workflows work is exactly this sort of augmentation; fromArs Technica:To shore up some of those shortcomings, Anthropic built memory capabilities into both new Claude 4 models, allowing them to maintain external files for storing key information across long sessions. When developers provide access to local files, the models can create and update “memory files” to track progress and things they deem important over time. Albert compared this to how humans take notes during extended work sessions.Both Claude 4 models introduce what Anthropic calls “extended thinking with tool use,” a new beta feature allowing the models to alternate between simulated reasoning and using external tools like web search, similar to what OpenAI’s o3 and 04-mini-high AI models currently do in ChatGPT. While Claude 3.7 Sonnet already had strong tool use capabilities, the new models can now interleave simulated reasoning and tool calling in a single response.This is exactly how I predicted these kinds of workflows would evolve in 2023’sChatGPT Gets a Computer: probabilistic LLMs are much closer to human-style thinking than traditional computers — that’s why they are so amazing — but that also means they need traditional deterministic computing to solve problems. That post, to be clear, was about ChatGPT plug-ins, which never really took off, but the overall concept does appear to be exactly what Anthropic is going for.This, by extension, means that Anthropic’s goal is what I wrote about in last fall’sEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AI:Computing didn’t start with the personal computer, but rather with the replacement of the back office. Or, to put it in rather more dire terms, the initial value in computing wasn’t created by helping Boomers do their job more efficiently, but rather by replacing entire swathes of them completely…Agents aren’t copilots; they are replacements. They do work in place of humans — think call centers and the like, to start — and they have all of the advantages of software: always available, and scalable up-and-down with demand…Benioff isn’t talking about makingemployeesmore productive, but rathercompanies; the verb that applies to employees is “augmented”, which sounds much nicer than “replaced”; the ultimate goal is stated as well: business results. That right there is tech’s third philosophy: improving the bottom line for large enterprises.Notice how well this framing applies to the mainframe wave of computing: accounting and ERP software made companies more productive and drove positive business results; the employees that were “augmented” were managers who got far more accurate reports much more quickly, while the employees who used to do that work were replaced. Critically, the decision about whether or not to make this change did not depend on rank-and-file employees changing how they worked, but for executives to decide to take the plunge.This strikes me as a very worthwhile goal, at least from a business perspective. OpenAI is busy owning the consumer space, while Google and its best-in-class infrastructure and leading models struggles with product; Anthropic’s task is to build the best agentproductin the world, including not just state-of-the-art models but all of the deterministic computing scaffolding that actually makes them replacement-level workers. After all, Anthropic’s API pricing may look expensive relative to Google, but it looks very cheap relative to a human salary.Human-AI AgentsIt remains to be seen how far away we truly are from agents that are reliable enough to be left alone to do work, and, needless to say, there are major second-order effects that will result from this being the case. In the meantime, however, I think there is a massive AI-enabled opportunity that is currently being missed by all of the major model-makers, or at least their product teams: human-AI agents.Right now all of the consumer-focused AI interfaces — i.e. the chatbots — are built for a single user (ChatGPT’s Teams subscriptionjust refers to billing and administration, not usage). There is a huge productivity unlock, however, that happens when you make them multiuser. The following is a personal example that I discovered last week.I do, as listeners of the Stratechery podcast know, have an assistant namedDaman; he reads non-Stratechery excerpts in Updates and Articles. That’s only a part of his job, however, as Daman assists me with customer support, accounting, scheduling, etc. (all of the actual writing of Stratechery, including research, is done by me, although Daman does maintain spreadsheets of company earnings).Now Daman is a smart and conscientious guy, and I feel fortunate to employ him; however, when it comes to researching and making complex decisions, I am a bit of a control freak: even if I asked him to research something, I know I would probably just go and do my own research. I have high confidence in my Google-fu, and there are so many considerations that I might be thinking about or notice that someone who is not me wouldn’t think about.ChatGPT, however, completely changes this dynamic. Last week Daman did some initial research for a complex decision using ChatGPT; he then shared a link to his chat, which meant I could go back to the beginning and trace his assumptions, the back-and-forth of his conversation, and then continue the conversation on my side. After diving deeper into various options — and correcting a few errant assumptions from the beginning — I came up with a promising course of action and, instead of having to explain it all to Daman to follow up on, I simply shared a link to my version of the chat back to him for reference (I asked Daman to read this section before posting, and he said he had already gone back and expanded on my instructions with much more confidence than he might have otherwise, because he knows I can look back at his conversation).Notice how this differs from the old “Google-and-remember” model:First, Daman using ChatGPT is a lot closer to my using ChatGPT than Daman using Google is to my using Google. I don’t say this to slight Daman; I honestly feel I’m probably in the top 0.01% of Google power users in the world, given my arcane and daily-honed ability to direct it to find exactly what I’m looking for in an increasingly unusable web of SEO slop. ChatGPT results do, of course, vary considerably based on your prompt, but that’s more a function of the pre-existing knowledge you bring to a question; in this case Daman’s starting point was the same as mine, and so his usage was the same as mine.Second, Daman’s ChatGPT usage was auditable: I could see the exact prompt he started with, ChatGPT’s response, etc., in a way I simply could not do if Daman used Google. That meant I knew the underlying assumptions that went into the conversation, the potential missed angles, etc.Third, the fact that ChatGPT doesnothave RAM-like memory, but rather simulates on ongoing conversation by passing the entire conversation-to-that-point in the context window and then answering anew, meant that I could seamlessly take over Daman’s chat. In other words, a seeming weakness of LLMs — the fact that the only “memory” is the context window — actually made them distinctly better for this use case.I was absolutely blown away by how well this worked. Instead of replacing Daman with an AI agent, the above characteristics mean I accidentally stumbled into a way to supercharge Daman’s value to me: he’s my human AI agent!In fact, this is so effective that I wonder if enterprises everywhere are thinking about AI all wrong, at least in the short-term. There is a lot of focus on one person having a lot of agents under their control, and the allure of that — both financially and in terms of productivity — are clear. It’s possible, however, that a lot of the productivity gains are available now. A team leader can direct people (1) who use the same tools as them with a similar effectiveness (2) in an auditable way (3) and seamlessly seamlessly extend or augment their work while retaining context. That’s pretty powerful!The reason why I think this is novel and worth writing about is because none of the chatbots support multi-user. Daman and I hacked this together using the “Share Chat” feature, but this would be better if multi-user chats were possible by default. And, more broadly, the real unlocks from AI are not going to come from working the way we do but better; it will come from changing the way we work, and here at Stratechery we have started doing exactly that.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.22: What LLMs Could Be in the WorkplaceDateFriday, May 30, 20252025.28: Tech Philosophy and AI StrategyDateFriday, July 11, 2025Tech Philosophy and AI OpportunityDateTuesday, July 8, 2025←2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyThe ESPN Streaming Service, The Status of U.S. Sports Rights, The Danger of Intentionality→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Claude 4, Anthropic Agents, Human-AI AgentsTuesday, May 27, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Memorial Day — and my gratitude to all who have served.OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed OpenAI’s acquisition of io and potential entry into the hardware business, as well as a retrospective about Jony Ive’s career at Apple.On to the Update:Claude 4FromCNBC:Anthropic, the Amazon-backed OpenAI rival, on Thursday launched its most powerful group of artificial intelligence models yet: Claude 4. The company said the two models, called Claude Opus 4 and Claude Sonnet 4, are defining a “new standard” when it comes to AI agents and “can analyze thousands of data sources, execute long-running tasks, write human-quality content, and perform complex actions,” per a release…Anthropic stopped investing in chatbots at the end of last year and has instead focused on improving Claude’s ability to do complex tasks like research and coding, even writing whole code bases, according to Jared Kaplan, Anthropic’s chief science officer. He also acknowledged that “the more complex the task is, the more risk there is that the model is going to kind of go off the rails … and we’re really focused on addressing that so that people can really delegate a lot of work at once to our models.”Anthropic said Claude Opus 4 was the “best coding model in the world” and could autonomously work for nearly a full corporate workday — seven hours. Both models can search the web to complete tasks on a user’s behalf and alternate between reasoning and tool use, according to Anthropic. The company also said that when given access to local files, they can extract and save “key facts to maintain continuity and build tacit knowledge over time.”“I do a lot of writing with Claude, and I think prior to Opus 4 and Sonnet 4, I was mostly using the models as a thinking partner, but still doing most of the writing myself,” Mike Krieger, Anthropic’s chief product officer, said in an interview. “And they’ve crossed this threshold where now most of my writing is actually … Opus mostly, and it now is unrecognizable from my writing.” Krieger added, “I love that we’re kind of pushing the frontier on two sides. Like one is the coding piece and agentic behavior overall, and that’s powering a lot of these coding startups. … But then also, we’re pushing the frontier on how these models can actually learn from and then be a really useful writing partner, too.”I trust my friends at CNBC will forgive the long excerpt (everyone please go and click on the article), but I thought that some of these quotes they got from Kaplan and Krieger were super interesting.Start with the fact that Claude is in an interesting place. Claude 3.5 was widely regarded as a huge leap forward in terms of coding in particular, and helped drive the huge growth in AI IDE’s like Cursor. Both Anthropic and OpenAI, however, face a real threat in Google’s rapidly improving Gemini models, which are both capable and significantly cheaper. This makes products like Cursor both an opportunity and a risk: first, customers could become loyal to the product instead of the model, and second, it is trivial to switch out the model to something better and/or cheaper. What does help Anthropic is that Claude is also the state-of-the-art option for AWS customers, and is also available on Google Cloud Platform; Gemini is only on GCP, and OpenAI is the only state-of-the-art option on Azure.What isn’t competitive — and which Kaplan acknowledged in this CNBC article — is the consumer space, at least when it comes to chatbots. ChatGPT has won, and it’s hard to see that changing. You saw an acknowledgment of that reality from Google when, earlier this year,they pulled Gemini out of the Google appandthe shift in focus to AI Mode and the Search funnel; now it appears that Anthropic is throwing in the towel as well. And, I would note, OpenAI is the deserved winner: not only were they first, but they alsohad the best products.What unifies both of these use cases, at least to date, is that they are a form of ongoing human augmentation; you ask the AI to do something, or ask it a question, and it does the work or the research, and then you utilize or verify the output for whatever project you are working on. What Anthropic is clearly focused on, however, are workflows that take the human out of the loop: you tell the AI to do something, it does it, and while you can verify the results, ideally you get to the point where you mostly don’t need to.Anthropic AgentsI am talking, of course, about agents, and I actually thought one of the most useful examples of what an agent is came inmy interview earlier this year with Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg:MZ:I basically think that there are four major product and business opportunities that are the things that we’re looking at and I’ll start from the most simplest and probably the ones that are the easiest to do to the things that are further afield from where we are today. So most basic of the four. Use AI to make it so that the ads business goes a lot better. Improve recommendations, make it so that any business that basically wants to achieve some business outcome can just come to us, not have to produce any content, not have to know anything about their customers. Can just say, “Here’s the business outcome that I want, here’s what I’m willing to pay, I’m going to connect you to my bank account, I will pay you for as many business outcomes as you can achieve”. Right?Best black box of all time.MZ:Yeah, it is basically like the ultimate business agent, and if you think about the pieces of advertising, there’s content creation, the creative, there’s the targeting, and there’s the measurement, and probably the first pieces that we started building were the measurement to basically make it so that we can effectively have a business that’s organized around when we’re delivering results for people instead of just showing them impressions.Outcomes, yeah.MZ:And then, we start off with basic targeting. Over the last 5 to 10 years, we’ve basically gotten to the point where we effectively discourage businesses from trying to limit the targeting…If they really want to limit it, we have that as an option. But basically, we believe at this point that we are just better at finding the people who are going to resonate with your product than you are. And so, there’s that piece.But there’s still the creative piece, which is basically businesses come to us and they have a sense of what their message is or what their video is or their image, and that’s pretty hard to produce and I think we’re pretty close.And the more they produce, the better. Because then, you can test it, see what works. Well, what if you could just produce an infinite number?MZ:Yeah, or we just make it for them. I mean, obviously, it’ll always be the case that they can come with a suggestion or here’s the creative that they want, especially if they really want to dial it in. But in general, we’re going to get to a point where you’re a business, you come to us, you tell us what your objective is, you connect to your bank account, you don’t need any creative, you don’t need any targeting demographic, you don’t need any measurement, except to be able to read the results that we spit out. I think that’s going to be huge, I think it is a redefinition of the category of advertising.I like this example for a few reasons. First, a frequent mistake that is made by technologists is getting hung up on the technology itself; ergo, obviously an agent must be something that uses an LLM! In fact, however, Meta’s current targeting and measurement capabilities arenotusing LLMs; yet Meta’s ad platform is a real product that real businesses can use to the tune of billions of real dollars that basically can be given a task (acquire customers) and can go out and complete that task without any human involvement. How is that not an agent already — and the most successful agent in the world, at that?Second, Zuckerberg is talking about adding LLMs to this workflow to make it even more end-to-end: in the future businesses can simply ask for business results, without needing to go to the trouble of making creative; this, per the previous point, will make for a better agent, not suddenly transform this workflow from non-agentic to agentic. It also suggests that some of the most compelling use cases will in fact incorporate LLMs into traditional computing — or augment LLMs with traditional computing — as opposed to being something LLMs do on their own.Indeed, a big part of what makes Claude 4 workflows work is exactly this sort of augmentation; fromArs Technica:To shore up some of those shortcomings, Anthropic built memory capabilities into both new Claude 4 models, allowing them to maintain external files for storing key information across long sessions. When developers provide access to local files, the models can create and update “memory files” to track progress and things they deem important over time. Albert compared this to how humans take notes during extended work sessions.Both Claude 4 models introduce what Anthropic calls “extended thinking with tool use,” a new beta feature allowing the models to alternate between simulated reasoning and using external tools like web search, similar to what OpenAI’s o3 and 04-mini-high AI models currently do in ChatGPT. While Claude 3.7 Sonnet already had strong tool use capabilities, the new models can now interleave simulated reasoning and tool calling in a single response.This is exactly how I predicted these kinds of workflows would evolve in 2023’sChatGPT Gets a Computer: probabilistic LLMs are much closer to human-style thinking than traditional computers — that’s why they are so amazing — but that also means they need traditional deterministic computing to solve problems. That post, to be clear, was about ChatGPT plug-ins, which never really took off, but the overall concept does appear to be exactly what Anthropic is going for.This, by extension, means that Anthropic’s goal is what I wrote about in last fall’sEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AI:Computing didn’t start with the personal computer, but rather with the replacement of the back office. Or, to put it in rather more dire terms, the initial value in computing wasn’t created by helping Boomers do their job more efficiently, but rather by replacing entire swathes of them completely…Agents aren’t copilots; they are replacements. They do work in place of humans — think call centers and the like, to start — and they have all of the advantages of software: always available, and scalable up-and-down with demand…Benioff isn’t talking about makingemployeesmore productive, but rathercompanies; the verb that applies to employees is “augmented”, which sounds much nicer than “replaced”; the ultimate goal is stated as well: business results. That right there is tech’s third philosophy: improving the bottom line for large enterprises.Notice how well this framing applies to the mainframe wave of computing: accounting and ERP software made companies more productive and drove positive business results; the employees that were “augmented” were managers who got far more accurate reports much more quickly, while the employees who used to do that work were replaced. Critically, the decision about whether or not to make this change did not depend on rank-and-file employees changing how they worked, but for executives to decide to take the plunge.This strikes me as a very worthwhile goal, at least from a business perspective. OpenAI is busy owning the consumer space, while Google and its best-in-class infrastructure and leading models struggles with product; Anthropic’s task is to build the best agentproductin the world, including not just state-of-the-art models but all of the deterministic computing scaffolding that actually makes them replacement-level workers. After all, Anthropic’s API pricing may look expensive relative to Google, but it looks very cheap relative to a human salary.Human-AI AgentsIt remains to be seen how far away we truly are from agents that are reliable enough to be left alone to do work, and, needless to say, there are major second-order effects that will result from this being the case. In the meantime, however, I think there is a massive AI-enabled opportunity that is currently being missed by all of the major model-makers, or at least their product teams: human-AI agents.Right now all of the consumer-focused AI interfaces — i.e. the chatbots — are built for a single user (ChatGPT’s Teams subscriptionjust refers to billing and administration, not usage). There is a huge productivity unlock, however, that happens when you make them multiuser. The following is a personal example that I discovered last week.I do, as listeners of the Stratechery podcast know, have an assistant namedDaman; he reads non-Stratechery excerpts in Updates and Articles. That’s only a part of his job, however, as Daman assists me with customer support, accounting, scheduling, etc. (all of the actual writing of Stratechery, including research, is done by me, although Daman does maintain spreadsheets of company earnings).Now Daman is a smart and conscientious guy, and I feel fortunate to employ him; however, when it comes to researching and making complex decisions, I am a bit of a control freak: even if I asked him to research something, I know I would probably just go and do my own research. I have high confidence in my Google-fu, and there are so many considerations that I might be thinking about or notice that someone who is not me wouldn’t think about.ChatGPT, however, completely changes this dynamic. Last week Daman did some initial research for a complex decision using ChatGPT; he then shared a link to his chat, which meant I could go back to the beginning and trace his assumptions, the back-and-forth of his conversation, and then continue the conversation on my side. After diving deeper into various options — and correcting a few errant assumptions from the beginning — I came up with a promising course of action and, instead of having to explain it all to Daman to follow up on, I simply shared a link to my version of the chat back to him for reference (I asked Daman to read this section before posting, and he said he had already gone back and expanded on my instructions with much more confidence than he might have otherwise, because he knows I can look back at his conversation).Notice how this differs from the old “Google-and-remember” model:First, Daman using ChatGPT is a lot closer to my using ChatGPT than Daman using Google is to my using Google. I don’t say this to slight Daman; I honestly feel I’m probably in the top 0.01% of Google power users in the world, given my arcane and daily-honed ability to direct it to find exactly what I’m looking for in an increasingly unusable web of SEO slop. ChatGPT results do, of course, vary considerably based on your prompt, but that’s more a function of the pre-existing knowledge you bring to a question; in this case Daman’s starting point was the same as mine, and so his usage was the same as mine.Second, Daman’s ChatGPT usage was auditable: I could see the exact prompt he started with, ChatGPT’s response, etc., in a way I simply could not do if Daman used Google. That meant I knew the underlying assumptions that went into the conversation, the potential missed angles, etc.Third, the fact that ChatGPT doesnothave RAM-like memory, but rather simulates on ongoing conversation by passing the entire conversation-to-that-point in the context window and then answering anew, meant that I could seamlessly take over Daman’s chat. In other words, a seeming weakness of LLMs — the fact that the only “memory” is the context window — actually made them distinctly better for this use case.I was absolutely blown away by how well this worked. Instead of replacing Daman with an AI agent, the above characteristics mean I accidentally stumbled into a way to supercharge Daman’s value to me: he’s my human AI agent!In fact, this is so effective that I wonder if enterprises everywhere are thinking about AI all wrong, at least in the short-term. There is a lot of focus on one person having a lot of agents under their control, and the allure of that — both financially and in terms of productivity — are clear. It’s possible, however, that a lot of the productivity gains are available now. A team leader can direct people (1) who use the same tools as them with a similar effectiveness (2) in an auditable way (3) and seamlessly seamlessly extend or augment their work while retaining context. That’s pretty powerful!The reason why I think this is novel and worth writing about is because none of the chatbots support multi-user. Daman and I hacked this together using the “Share Chat” feature, but this would be better if multi-user chats were possible by default. And, more broadly, the real unlocks from AI are not going to come from working the way we do but better; it will come from changing the way we work, and here at Stratechery we have started doing exactly that.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.22: What LLMs Could Be in the WorkplaceDateFriday, May 30, 20252025.28: Tech Philosophy and AI StrategyDateFriday, July 11, 2025Tech Philosophy and AI OpportunityDateTuesday, July 8, 2025←2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyThe ESPN Streaming Service, The Status of U.S. Sports Rights, The Danger of Intentionality→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Memorial Day — and my gratitude to all who have served.OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed OpenAI’s acquisition of io and potential entry into the hardware business, as well as a retrospective about Jony Ive’s career at Apple.On to the Update:Claude 4FromCNBC:Anthropic, the Amazon-backed OpenAI rival, on Thursday launched its most powerful group of artificial intelligence models yet: Claude 4. The company said the two models, called Claude Opus 4 and Claude Sonnet 4, are defining a “new standard” when it comes to AI agents and “can analyze thousands of data sources, execute long-running tasks, write human-quality content, and perform complex actions,” per a release…Anthropic stopped investing in chatbots at the end of last year and has instead focused on improving Claude’s ability to do complex tasks like research and coding, even writing whole code bases, according to Jared Kaplan, Anthropic’s chief science officer. He also acknowledged that “the more complex the task is, the more risk there is that the model is going to kind of go off the rails … and we’re really focused on addressing that so that people can really delegate a lot of work at once to our models.”Anthropic said Claude Opus 4 was the “best coding model in the world” and could autonomously work for nearly a full corporate workday — seven hours. Both models can search the web to complete tasks on a user’s behalf and alternate between reasoning and tool use, according to Anthropic. The company also said that when given access to local files, they can extract and save “key facts to maintain continuity and build tacit knowledge over time.”“I do a lot of writing with Claude, and I think prior to Opus 4 and Sonnet 4, I was mostly using the models as a thinking partner, but still doing most of the writing myself,” Mike Krieger, Anthropic’s chief product officer, said in an interview. “And they’ve crossed this threshold where now most of my writing is actually … Opus mostly, and it now is unrecognizable from my writing.” Krieger added, “I love that we’re kind of pushing the frontier on two sides. Like one is the coding piece and agentic behavior overall, and that’s powering a lot of these coding startups. … But then also, we’re pushing the frontier on how these models can actually learn from and then be a really useful writing partner, too.”I trust my friends at CNBC will forgive the long excerpt (everyone please go and click on the article), but I thought that some of these quotes they got from Kaplan and Krieger were super interesting.Start with the fact that Claude is in an interesting place. Claude 3.5 was widely regarded as a huge leap forward in terms of coding in particular, and helped drive the huge growth in AI IDE’s like Cursor. Both Anthropic and OpenAI, however, face a real threat in Google’s rapidly improving Gemini models, which are both capable and significantly cheaper. This makes products like Cursor both an opportunity and a risk: first, customers could become loyal to the product instead of the model, and second, it is trivial to switch out the model to something better and/or cheaper. What does help Anthropic is that Claude is also the state-of-the-art option for AWS customers, and is also available on Google Cloud Platform; Gemini is only on GCP, and OpenAI is the only state-of-the-art option on Azure.What isn’t competitive — and which Kaplan acknowledged in this CNBC article — is the consumer space, at least when it comes to chatbots. ChatGPT has won, and it’s hard to see that changing. You saw an acknowledgment of that reality from Google when, earlier this year,they pulled Gemini out of the Google appandthe shift in focus to AI Mode and the Search funnel; now it appears that Anthropic is throwing in the towel as well. And, I would note, OpenAI is the deserved winner: not only were they first, but they alsohad the best products.What unifies both of these use cases, at least to date, is that they are a form of ongoing human augmentation; you ask the AI to do something, or ask it a question, and it does the work or the research, and then you utilize or verify the output for whatever project you are working on. What Anthropic is clearly focused on, however, are workflows that take the human out of the loop: you tell the AI to do something, it does it, and while you can verify the results, ideally you get to the point where you mostly don’t need to.Anthropic AgentsI am talking, of course, about agents, and I actually thought one of the most useful examples of what an agent is came inmy interview earlier this year with Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg:MZ:I basically think that there are four major product and business opportunities that are the things that we’re looking at and I’ll start from the most simplest and probably the ones that are the easiest to do to the things that are further afield from where we are today. So most basic of the four. Use AI to make it so that the ads business goes a lot better. Improve recommendations, make it so that any business that basically wants to achieve some business outcome can just come to us, not have to produce any content, not have to know anything about their customers. Can just say, “Here’s the business outcome that I want, here’s what I’m willing to pay, I’m going to connect you to my bank account, I will pay you for as many business outcomes as you can achieve”. Right?Best black box of all time.MZ:Yeah, it is basically like the ultimate business agent, and if you think about the pieces of advertising, there’s content creation, the creative, there’s the targeting, and there’s the measurement, and probably the first pieces that we started building were the measurement to basically make it so that we can effectively have a business that’s organized around when we’re delivering results for people instead of just showing them impressions.Outcomes, yeah.MZ:And then, we start off with basic targeting. Over the last 5 to 10 years, we’ve basically gotten to the point where we effectively discourage businesses from trying to limit the targeting…If they really want to limit it, we have that as an option. But basically, we believe at this point that we are just better at finding the people who are going to resonate with your product than you are. And so, there’s that piece.But there’s still the creative piece, which is basically businesses come to us and they have a sense of what their message is or what their video is or their image, and that’s pretty hard to produce and I think we’re pretty close.And the more they produce, the better. Because then, you can test it, see what works. Well, what if you could just produce an infinite number?MZ:Yeah, or we just make it for them. I mean, obviously, it’ll always be the case that they can come with a suggestion or here’s the creative that they want, especially if they really want to dial it in. But in general, we’re going to get to a point where you’re a business, you come to us, you tell us what your objective is, you connect to your bank account, you don’t need any creative, you don’t need any targeting demographic, you don’t need any measurement, except to be able to read the results that we spit out. I think that’s going to be huge, I think it is a redefinition of the category of advertising.I like this example for a few reasons. First, a frequent mistake that is made by technologists is getting hung up on the technology itself; ergo, obviously an agent must be something that uses an LLM! In fact, however, Meta’s current targeting and measurement capabilities arenotusing LLMs; yet Meta’s ad platform is a real product that real businesses can use to the tune of billions of real dollars that basically can be given a task (acquire customers) and can go out and complete that task without any human involvement. How is that not an agent already — and the most successful agent in the world, at that?Second, Zuckerberg is talking about adding LLMs to this workflow to make it even more end-to-end: in the future businesses can simply ask for business results, without needing to go to the trouble of making creative; this, per the previous point, will make for a better agent, not suddenly transform this workflow from non-agentic to agentic. It also suggests that some of the most compelling use cases will in fact incorporate LLMs into traditional computing — or augment LLMs with traditional computing — as opposed to being something LLMs do on their own.Indeed, a big part of what makes Claude 4 workflows work is exactly this sort of augmentation; fromArs Technica:To shore up some of those shortcomings, Anthropic built memory capabilities into both new Claude 4 models, allowing them to maintain external files for storing key information across long sessions. When developers provide access to local files, the models can create and update “memory files” to track progress and things they deem important over time. Albert compared this to how humans take notes during extended work sessions.Both Claude 4 models introduce what Anthropic calls “extended thinking with tool use,” a new beta feature allowing the models to alternate between simulated reasoning and using external tools like web search, similar to what OpenAI’s o3 and 04-mini-high AI models currently do in ChatGPT. While Claude 3.7 Sonnet already had strong tool use capabilities, the new models can now interleave simulated reasoning and tool calling in a single response.This is exactly how I predicted these kinds of workflows would evolve in 2023’sChatGPT Gets a Computer: probabilistic LLMs are much closer to human-style thinking than traditional computers — that’s why they are so amazing — but that also means they need traditional deterministic computing to solve problems. That post, to be clear, was about ChatGPT plug-ins, which never really took off, but the overall concept does appear to be exactly what Anthropic is going for.This, by extension, means that Anthropic’s goal is what I wrote about in last fall’sEnterprise Philosophy and the First Wave of AI:Computing didn’t start with the personal computer, but rather with the replacement of the back office. Or, to put it in rather more dire terms, the initial value in computing wasn’t created by helping Boomers do their job more efficiently, but rather by replacing entire swathes of them completely…Agents aren’t copilots; they are replacements. They do work in place of humans — think call centers and the like, to start — and they have all of the advantages of software: always available, and scalable up-and-down with demand…Benioff isn’t talking about makingemployeesmore productive, but rathercompanies; the verb that applies to employees is “augmented”, which sounds much nicer than “replaced”; the ultimate goal is stated as well: business results. That right there is tech’s third philosophy: improving the bottom line for large enterprises.Notice how well this framing applies to the mainframe wave of computing: accounting and ERP software made companies more productive and drove positive business results; the employees that were “augmented” were managers who got far more accurate reports much more quickly, while the employees who used to do that work were replaced. Critically, the decision about whether or not to make this change did not depend on rank-and-file employees changing how they worked, but for executives to decide to take the plunge.This strikes me as a very worthwhile goal, at least from a business perspective. OpenAI is busy owning the consumer space, while Google and its best-in-class infrastructure and leading models struggles with product; Anthropic’s task is to build the best agentproductin the world, including not just state-of-the-art models but all of the deterministic computing scaffolding that actually makes them replacement-level workers. After all, Anthropic’s API pricing may look expensive relative to Google, but it looks very cheap relative to a human salary.Human-AI AgentsIt remains to be seen how far away we truly are from agents that are reliable enough to be left alone to do work, and, needless to say, there are major second-order effects that will result from this being the case. In the meantime, however, I think there is a massive AI-enabled opportunity that is currently being missed by all of the major model-makers, or at least their product teams: human-AI agents.Right now all of the consumer-focused AI interfaces — i.e. the chatbots — are built for a single user (ChatGPT’s Teams subscriptionjust refers to billing and administration, not usage). There is a huge productivity unlock, however, that happens when you make them multiuser. The following is a personal example that I discovered last week.I do, as listeners of the Stratechery podcast know, have an assistant namedDaman; he reads non-Stratechery excerpts in Updates and Articles. That’s only a part of his job, however, as Daman assists me with customer support, accounting, scheduling, etc. (all of the actual writing of Stratechery, including research, is done by me, although Daman does maintain spreadsheets of company earnings).Now Daman is a smart and conscientious guy, and I feel fortunate to employ him; however, when it comes to researching and making complex decisions, I am a bit of a control freak: even if I asked him to research something, I know I would probably just go and do my own research. I have high confidence in my Google-fu, and there are so many considerations that I might be thinking about or notice that someone who is not me wouldn’t think about.ChatGPT, however, completely changes this dynamic. Last week Daman did some initial research for a complex decision using ChatGPT; he then shared a link to his chat, which meant I could go back to the beginning and trace his assumptions, the back-and-forth of his conversation, and then continue the conversation on my side. After diving deeper into various options — and correcting a few errant assumptions from the beginning — I came up with a promising course of action and, instead of having to explain it all to Daman to follow up on, I simply shared a link to my version of the chat back to him for reference (I asked Daman to read this section before posting, and he said he had already gone back and expanded on my instructions with much more confidence than he might have otherwise, because he knows I can look back at his conversation).Notice how this differs from the old “Google-and-remember” model:First, Daman using ChatGPT is a lot closer to my using ChatGPT than Daman using Google is to my using Google. I don’t say this to slight Daman; I honestly feel I’m probably in the top 0.01% of Google power users in the world, given my arcane and daily-honed ability to direct it to find exactly what I’m looking for in an increasingly unusable web of SEO slop. ChatGPT results do, of course, vary considerably based on your prompt, but that’s more a function of the pre-existing knowledge you bring to a question; in this case Daman’s starting point was the same as mine, and so his usage was the same as mine.Second, Daman’s ChatGPT usage was auditable: I could see the exact prompt he started with, ChatGPT’s response, etc., in a way I simply could not do if Daman used Google. That meant I knew the underlying assumptions that went into the conversation, the potential missed angles, etc.Third, the fact that ChatGPT doesnothave RAM-like memory, but rather simulates on ongoing conversation by passing the entire conversation-to-that-point in the context window and then answering anew, meant that I could seamlessly take over Daman’s chat. In other words, a seeming weakness of LLMs — the fact that the only “memory” is the context window — actually made them distinctly better for this use case.I was absolutely blown away by how well this worked. Instead of replacing Daman with an AI agent, the above characteristics mean I accidentally stumbled into a way to supercharge Daman’s value to me: he’s my human AI agent!In fact, this is so effective that I wonder if enterprises everywhere are thinking about AI all wrong, at least in the short-term. There is a lot of focus on one person having a lot of agents under their control, and the allure of that — both financially and in terms of productivity — are clear. It’s possible, however, that a lot of the productivity gains are available now. A team leader can direct people (1) who use the same tools as them with a similar effectiveness (2) in an auditable way (3) and seamlessly seamlessly extend or augment their work while retaining context. That’s pretty powerful!The reason why I think this is novel and worth writing about is because none of the chatbots support multi-user. Daman and I hacked this together using the “Share Chat” feature, but this would be better if multi-user chats were possible by default. And, more broadly, the real unlocks from AI are not going to come from working the way we do but better; it will come from changing the way we work, and here at Stratechery we have started doing exactly that.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Anthropic, the Amazon-backed OpenAI rival, on Thursday launched its most powerful group of artificial intelligence models yet: Claude 4. The company said the two models, called Claude Opus 4 and Claude Sonnet 4, are defining a “new standard” when it comes to AI agents and “can analyze thousands of data sources, execute long-running tasks, write human-quality content, and perform complex actions,” per a release… Anthropic stopped investing in chatbots at the end of last year and has instead focused on improving Claude’s ability to do complex tasks like research and coding, even writing whole code bases, according to Jared Kaplan, Anthropic’s chief science officer. He also acknowledged that “the more complex the task is, the more risk there is that the model is going to kind of go off the rails … and we’re really focused on addressing that so that people can really delegate a lot of work at once to our models.” Anthropic said Claude Opus 4 was the “best coding model in the world” and could autonomously work for nearly a full corporate workday — seven hours. Both models can search the web to complete tasks on a user’s behalf and alternate between reasoning and tool use, according to Anthropic. The company also said that when given access to local files, they can extract and save “key facts to maintain continuity and build tacit knowledge over time.” “I do a lot of writing with Claude, and I think prior to Opus 4 and Sonnet 4, I was mostly using the models as a thinking partner, but still doing most of the writing myself,” Mike Krieger, Anthropic’s chief product officer, said in an interview. “And they’ve crossed this threshold where now most of my writing is actually … Opus mostly, and it now is unrecognizable from my writing.” Krieger added, “I love that we’re kind of pushing the frontier on two sides. Like one is the coding piece and agentic behavior overall, and that’s powering a lot of these coding startups. … But then also, we’re pushing the frontier on how these models can actually learn from and then be a really useful writing partner, too.” Start with the fact that Claude is in an interesting place. Claude 3.5 was widely regarded as a huge leap forward in terms of coding in particular, and helped drive the huge growth in AI IDE’s like Cursor. Both Anthropic and OpenAI, however, face a real threat in Google’s rapidly improving Gemini models, which are both capable and significantly cheaper. This makes products like Cursor both an opportunity and a risk: first, customers could become loyal to the product instead of the model, and second, it is trivial to switch out the model to something better and/or cheaper. What does help Anthropic is that Claude is also the state-of-the-art option for AWS customers, and is also available on Google Cloud Platform; Gemini is only on GCP, and OpenAI is the only state-of-the-art option on Azure. What isn’t competitive — and which Kaplan acknowledged in this CNBC article — is the consumer space, at least when it comes to chatbots. ChatGPT has won, and it’s hard to see that changing. You saw an acknowledgment of that reality from Google when, earlier this year,they pulled Gemini out of the Google appandthe shift in focus to AI Mode and the Search funnel; now it appears that Anthropic is throwing in the towel as well. And, I would note, OpenAI is the deserved winner: not only were they first, but they alsohad the best products. What unifies both of these use cases, at least to date, is that they are a form of ongoing human augmentation; you ask the AI to do something, or ask it a question, and it does the work or the research, and then you utilize or verify the output for whatever project you are working on. What Anthropic is clearly focused on, however, are workflows that take the human out of the loop: you tell the AI to do something, it does it, and while you can verify the results, ideally you get to the point where you mostly don’t need to. MZ:I basically think that there are four major product and business opportunities that are the things that we’re looking at and I’ll start from the most simplest and probably the ones that are the easiest to do to the things that are further afield from where we are today. So most basic of the four. Use AI to make it so that the ads business goes a lot better. Improve recommendations, make it so that any business that basically wants to achieve some business outcome can just come to us, not have to produce any content, not have to know anything about their customers. Can just say, “Here’s the business outcome that I want, here’s what I’m willing to pay, I’m going to connect you to my bank account, I will pay you for as many business outcomes as you can achieve”. Right? MZ:Yeah, it is basically like the ultimate business agent, and if you think about the pieces of advertising, there’s content creation, the creative, there’s the targeting, and there’s the measurement, and probably the first pieces that we started building were the measurement to basically make it so that we can effectively have a business that’s organized around when we’re delivering results for people instead of just showing them impressions. MZ:And then, we start off with basic targeting. Over the last 5 to 10 years, we’ve basically gotten to the point where we effectively discourage businesses from trying to limit the targeting…If they really want to limit it, we have that as an option. But basically, we believe at this point that we are just better at finding the people who are going to resonate with your product than you are. And so, there’s that piece. But there’s still the creative piece, which is basically businesses come to us and they have a sense of what their message is or what their video is or their image, and that’s pretty hard to produce and I think we’re pretty close. MZ:Yeah, or we just make it for them. I mean, obviously, it’ll always be the case that they can come with a suggestion or here’s the creative that they want, especially if they really want to dial it in. But in general, we’re going to get to a point where you’re a business, you come to us, you tell us what your objective is, you connect to your bank account, you don’t need any creative, you don’t need any targeting demographic, you don’t need any measurement, except to be able to read the results that we spit out. I think that’s going to be huge, I think it is a redefinition of the category of advertising. I like this example for a few reasons. First, a frequent mistake that is made by technologists is getting hung up on the technology itself; ergo, obviously an agent must be something that uses an LLM! In fact, however, Meta’s current targeting and measurement capabilities arenotusing LLMs; yet Meta’s ad platform is a real product that real businesses can use to the tune of billions of real dollars that basically can be given a task (acquire customers) and can go out and complete that task without any human involvement. How is that not an agent already — and the most successful agent in the world, at that? Second, Zuckerberg is talking about adding LLMs to this workflow to make it even more end-to-end: in the future businesses can simply ask for business results, without needing to go to the trouble of making creative; this, per the previous point, will make for a better agent, not suddenly transform this workflow from non-agentic to agentic. It also suggests that some of the most compelling use cases will in fact incorporate LLMs into traditional computing — or augment LLMs with traditional computing — as opposed to being something LLMs do on their own. To shore up some of those shortcomings, Anthropic built memory capabilities into both new Claude 4 models, allowing them to maintain external files for storing key information across long sessions. When developers provide access to local files, the models can create and update “memory files” to track progress and things they deem important over time. Albert compared this to how humans take notes during extended work sessions. Both Claude 4 models introduce what Anthropic calls “extended thinking with tool use,” a new beta feature allowing the models to alternate between simulated reasoning and using external tools like web search, similar to what OpenAI’s o3 and 04-mini-high AI models currently do in ChatGPT. While Claude 3.7 Sonnet already had strong tool use capabilities, the new models can now interleave simulated reasoning and tool calling in a single response. This is exactly how I predicted these kinds of workflows would evolve in 2023’sChatGPT Gets a Computer: probabilistic LLMs are much closer to human-style thinking than traditional computers — that’s why they are so amazing — but that also means they need traditional deterministic computing to solve problems. That post, to be clear, was about ChatGPT plug-ins, which never really took off, but the overall concept does appear to be exactly what Anthropic is going for. Computing didn’t start with the personal computer, but rather with the replacement of the back office. Or, to put it in rather more dire terms, the initial value in computing wasn’t created by helping Boomers do their job more efficiently, but rather by replacing entire swathes of them completely…Agents aren’t copilots; they are replacements. They do work in place of humans — think call centers and the like, to start — and they have all of the advantages of software: always available, and scalable up-and-down with demand… Benioff isn’t talking about makingemployeesmore productive, but rathercompanies; the verb that applies to employees is “augmented”, which sounds much nicer than “replaced”; the ultimate goal is stated as well: business results. That right there is tech’s third philosophy: improving the bottom line for large enterprises. Notice how well this framing applies to the mainframe wave of computing: accounting and ERP software made companies more productive and drove positive business results; the employees that were “augmented” were managers who got far more accurate reports much more quickly, while the employees who used to do that work were replaced. Critically, the decision about whether or not to make this change did not depend on rank-and-file employees changing how they worked, but for executives to decide to take the plunge. This strikes me as a very worthwhile goal, at least from a business perspective. OpenAI is busy owning the consumer space, while Google and its best-in-class infrastructure and leading models struggles with product; Anthropic’s task is to build the best agentproductin the world, including not just state-of-the-art models but all of the deterministic computing scaffolding that actually makes them replacement-level workers. After all, Anthropic’s API pricing may look expensive relative to Google, but it looks very cheap relative to a human salary. It remains to be seen how far away we truly are from agents that are reliable enough to be left alone to do work, and, needless to say, there are major second-order effects that will result from this being the case. In the meantime, however, I think there is a massive AI-enabled opportunity that is currently being missed by all of the major model-makers, or at least their product teams: human-AI agents. Right now all of the consumer-focused AI interfaces — i.e. the chatbots — are built for a single user (ChatGPT’s Teams subscriptionjust refers to billing and administration, not usage). There is a huge productivity unlock, however, that happens when you make them multiuser. The following is a personal example that I discovered last week. I do, as listeners of the Stratechery podcast know, have an assistant namedDaman; he reads non-Stratechery excerpts in Updates and Articles. That’s only a part of his job, however, as Daman assists me with customer support, accounting, scheduling, etc. (all of the actual writing of Stratechery, including research, is done by me, although Daman does maintain spreadsheets of company earnings). Now Daman is a smart and conscientious guy, and I feel fortunate to employ him; however, when it comes to researching and making complex decisions, I am a bit of a control freak: even if I asked him to research something, I know I would probably just go and do my own research. I have high confidence in my Google-fu, and there are so many considerations that I might be thinking about or notice that someone who is not me wouldn’t think about. ChatGPT, however, completely changes this dynamic. Last week Daman did some initial research for a complex decision using ChatGPT; he then shared a link to his chat, which meant I could go back to the beginning and trace his assumptions, the back-and-forth of his conversation, and then continue the conversation on my side. After diving deeper into various options — and correcting a few errant assumptions from the beginning — I came up with a promising course of action and, instead of having to explain it all to Daman to follow up on, I simply shared a link to my version of the chat back to him for reference (I asked Daman to read this section before posting, and he said he had already gone back and expanded on my instructions with much more confidence than he might have otherwise, because he knows I can look back at his conversation). I was absolutely blown away by how well this worked. Instead of replacing Daman with an AI agent, the above characteristics mean I accidentally stumbled into a way to supercharge Daman’s value to me: he’s my human AI agent! In fact, this is so effective that I wonder if enterprises everywhere are thinking about AI all wrong, at least in the short-term. There is a lot of focus on one person having a lot of agents under their control, and the allure of that — both financially and in terms of productivity — are clear. It’s possible, however, that a lot of the productivity gains are available now. A team leader can direct people (1) who use the same tools as them with a similar effectiveness (2) in an auditable way (3) and seamlessly seamlessly extend or augment their work while retaining context. That’s pretty powerful! The reason why I think this is novel and worth writing about is because none of the chatbots support multi-user. Daman and I hacked this together using the “Share Chat” feature, but this would be better if multi-user chats were possible by default. And, more broadly, the real unlocks from AI are not going to come from working the way we do but better; it will come from changing the way we work, and here at Stratechery we have started doing exactly that. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025