# [PODCAST] More on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple's Response and Meta's Motivation

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/more-on-orion-where-vision-pro-went-wrong-apples-response-and-metas-motivation/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.QtadgrDAu6zpaR4dY729UbFMPb6xeyQ_WZZUK8UjfIoM8ueqUKv4mNtnKVjjXLaFQtnbBQj4yPhVFCADEZiS9_QmMCD1oF6kmE4tQGE4PY9ha1RC8TpA_XrBcifuHCCRPC2jGSVI-O59Hyrvb2VWhnur2JTCjT56e4XIHkfWw_oCmy4tso4344TeE3Wl1ZenqC6CEgqgzqhCosZrP6OA_eg1OmcycHClv8GAIQtZR6TiD0awBc7zFo44rMiL2txip4XE5XNc156lv4ojCZ5K9aZlOnXI2lQDoVZijWFgxA8e4GYsbC02zZGTml_7mp3AyAc3naZa7XlfeDuA9_fx0Q
**Atlas ID**: 229690
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.942663

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMore on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationMonday, September 30, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed the Meta Connect keynote and the Orion augmented reality glasses.On to the Update:More on OrionIn case you missed it, I posted my initial reaction to Meta’s Orion augmented reality glasses at the top ofThursday’s Stratechery Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth. I felt that the announcement was important enough that I didn’t want to wait until Monday, but I do have some additional thoughts; to make things simpler I’m going to write as if Thursday’s preamble did not exist, so this is the rare example where I don’t exhort you to read a link of mine first!The Orion demo took place in a dedicated demo room (the same one that they filmed the reaction of various celebrities to Orion in); that means I did not experience Orion outdoors, my experience was fully monitored (and I didn’t actually have the puck in my pocket), but I was able to walk around freely. There was a “script” that the demo followed, but once I put them on I found it so intuitive that I immediately started just “clicking” around, which the demo-givers were fine with.Orion uses eye-tracking a la the Vision Pro, with a similar selection mechanism; the eye-tracking seemed just as accurate as Apple’s, although I wasn’t doing a side-by-side comparison. The forefinger detection, meanwhile, was clearly better, thanks to the wristband that detects electrical signals in your wrist. This really, really works, easily distinguishing between individual fingers. In fact, this was one of the parts of the demo I had the hardest time with: forefinger is “select” while middle finger is “home”, and I found remembering the distinction to be cognitively burdensome; I felt like an old person in the 80s or 90s trying to remember the difference between a left click and right click on a Windows PC, and suddenly understood why the Mac only ever had one button on the mouse. Of course this also suggests that this is a distinction that would likely become second-nature over time; I’ll see how I handle distinct actions for the ring finger and pinkie!Three demos really stood out for me. First, the notification flow was as cool as you might imagine. You can be doing something else — either in augmented reality, or just in the real world — and you can see and click into a notification simply by moving your eyes and touching your fingers together. The lack of friction is amazing. Second, while you can pin applications in physical space like the Vision Pro, you can also pin them in your vision, so that they stay in view even as you physically move around. It’s kind of an obvious thing to do for glasses meant to be worn out-and-about, but it was still striking. Third, I really enjoyed the two games that I played; one was a space-invader type game and the other was Pong, played with another Orion wearer. That noted, there weren’t a ton of apps; this is obviously an area that Meta will need to focus on heavily over the next couple of years.One thing that really surprised me came in the context of taking video calls. My first call was with another person using their phone camera who was standing just outside the demo room. My second call was with someone using the webcam on their computer in a weird box-like office, or so I thought. In fact, it turned out that person was using a Quest headset and aCodec Avatar, Meta’s name for photorealistic avatars. I was legitimately fooled, at least for the first 15 seconds or so. Now I suppose you could chalk this up to Orion’s relatively low resolution, but at least for this call the avatar was good enough that it escaped the uncanny reality effect that you might expect from photorealistic avatars. This is, I should note, another feature that hasn’t shipped, but the quality was definitely much higher than I expected.The final thing to emphasize is just how comfortable the Orion glasses were. At no point did I find them heavy or unwieldy. Granted, I do have a pretty big head with a nose that offers good support, and I’m used to wearing glasses, but I don’t think that I would have any problem wearing Orion for an extended amount of time.Where Vision Pro Went WrongJust to reemphasize a point that I made on Thursday, Orion is a prototype, and I get the impression that an actual consumer product won’t ship for at least three years. The Apple Vision Pro is a product you can buy in stores today, so any comparison should be grounded in that reality. That caveat, though, is actually somewhat immaterial to one of my biggest takeaways from trying Orion. The problems Orion highlights with the Vision Pro are not about Apple’s execution, but about the entire set of tradeoffs the company made with their headset; the way to fix the problems exposed is not to execute better or innovate more, but to completely rework the entire project.Specifically, Apple made a host of trade-offs in building the Vision Pro that were focused on passthrough, i.e. the ability to see the world around you. Apple delivered super high resolution screens married to an entire subsystem — including a dedicated processor — that lets you perceive the world around you in as close to real-time as possible. To do that, though, required a more expensive headset, with higher thermal and power requirements, that — and this is the key point — still isn’t good enough. The Vision Pro has a frustratingly narrow field of view, you can still see pixels, and the pass-through kind of falls apart when you move your head quickly; moreover, all of this is packed into a headset that is big and heavy and has a cord attached to it.The reality is that the only truly satisfactory answer to passthrough is to not need it at all. Orion has perfect field-of-view and infinite resolution because you’re looking at the real world; it’s also dramatically smaller and lighter. Moreover, this perfect fidelity actually gives more degrees of freedom in terms of delivering the AR experience: no matter how high resolution the display is, it will still be lower resolution than the world around it; I tried a version of Orion with double the resolution and, honestly, it wasn’t that different, because the magic was in having augmented reality at all, not in its resolution. I suspect the same thing applies to field of view: 70 degrees seemed massive on Orion, even though that is less than the Vision Pro’s 100 degrees, because the edge of the field of view for Orion was reality, whereas the edge for the Vision Pro is, well, nothing.And, on the flip side, Meta’s implementation of pass-through on the Quest 3 (and now the Quest 3S) makes much more sense. Both devices have color pass-through, albeit with lower resolution and higher latency than Apple Vision Pro; it’s good enough, though, to make sure you don’t run into furniture while playing a game, or to have a quick conversation with someone in the real world without taking your headset off. That’s enough! Meta treats pass-through as a baseline feature, not a selling point, and that’s one reason they can deliver a headset that is much cheaper and lighter and with a larger field of view.I think the best explanation for Apple’s choices was provided by John Gruber on the most recent episode ofDithering: to the extent Apple wants to spur development of AR applications is the extent that they need to deliver the best AR experience they can today, and again, the Vision Pro is shipping, and Orion is not. In other words, the Vision Pro actually is the best AR device you can actually buy and develop for (the presence of things like “Eyesight”, the weird virtual eye-displaying screen on the exterior of the Vision Pro, emphasize the extent to which Apple is indeed focused on AR). The problem, though, is that no one is buying it or developing for it, which means it’s all kind of a waste of time. Apple would have been better served delivering a more Quest-like experience at a much higher comfort level and much lower price point, and focused its efforts on producing an Orion-like set of glasses for AR.Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationHere’s the good news for Apple: Orion is just a prototype, and they have plenty of time to take to heart the helpful critique that Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg just delivered of their approach.First, I think the next Apple Vision (don’t call it “Pro”) should basically be Apple’s version of the Quest. It should be primarily a VR headset with much simpler and cheaper pass-through, that is primarily focused on delivering a great entertainment experience. The central question for development should be the resolution of the screens; Vision Pro’s high resolution is great for entertainment and for things like projecting your Mac environment, but they do come with big trade-offs in terms of cost in particular. I personally think that Apple should match the Quest, with the goal of building up a larger userbase that will spur developers and entertainment providers to build content for their platform; I think the risk of being overwhelmed by the Quest ecosystem a la Windows versus the Mac is a real one.Second, of course I assume that Apple is working on its own glasses project; the company should absolutely redouble efforts here with the goal of beating Meta to market. That certainly seems like a reasonable bet, given Apple’s long-demonstrated expertise at manufacturing high-precision devices at scale; Meta’s challenges here are considerable, both in absolute terms — making Orion will be really hard! — and in relative terms, given the company’s relative dearth of experience in making high-end consumer electronics at scale.Third, I think that Apple should be somewhat more explicit than usual about this shift in strategy. Yes, CEO Tim Cook has talked about the company being more focused on AR than VR, but I think the company would benefit from developers understanding that they actually received a preview of AR with the Vision Pro, not an end in-and-of-itself. That means that it is a platform worth investing in, because it will be something much more meaningful when its vision manifests in glasses. It’s the same story with entertainment; in this case the payoff for development now is access to a much larger addressable market in the context of the much cheaper headset I am advocating for.I don’t, of course, expect Apple to listen to point three, even if the returns from the company’s secrecy seem to be rapidly diminishing. Points one and two, though, seem super obvious to me, and I am very eager to see if they are super obvious to Apple’s management. As I noted above, Zuckerberg might as well have gotten on stage and given a PowerPoint presentation about what Apple got wrong with the Vision Pro; if Apple takes the critique to heart and pivots quickly then it will both be an attestation of the company’s continued vitality and a big problem for Meta.This raises the most interesting question of all: why did Meta show Orion? The most obvious potential outcome is what I just explained: giving a clear roadmap for Apple to catch up on VR headsets and beat them to market with AR. That’s a pretty big risk!The most obvious explanation is that Orion is likely to significantly relieve the pressure the company has been getting from Wall Street about the money it is spending on Reality Labs. It’s one thing to tell investors that the company has a plan to own the next platform after the smartphone; it’s another to actually show a product where that seems plausible.The second reason is to boost internal morale. One thing that I found encouraging for Meta is the number of employees I saw at the company’s headquarters wearing the Ray-Ban smart glasses: that is actually a cool product that employees don’t have to be forced to use. Orion builds on that momentum, as employees in Reality Labs feel validated, and other useful people in the space feel motivated to work at Meta, or work on the platform from the outside.The third reason is to light a massive fire under the folks responsible for Orion shipping. Even if you think that Reality Labs is worth investing in,there is plenty of evidencethat the division has been moving too slowly; moving slowly now, though, isn’t an option. Apple is positioned to steal their thunder and has been given the roadmap to do so.There is one more angle that is worth considering: should Meta give building a smartphone another go? That is another huge advantage that Apple could bring to the table: instead of having a “puck” in your pocket, you could have an iPhone providing connectivity and compute to the company’s glasses, and perhaps a future Apple Watch or Watch band that provides a control interface. That not only means you don’t need to carry an extra device, but also ensures you have all of the apps you depend on, and a way to interact with them if your battery dies. I suggested on Thursday that the puck should have a hardware keyboard; maybe, though, it should just be a smartphone that is mostly unremarkable but for the fact it is the only way to get AR glasses.That is enough for now, but there will be more to say on all of this in the future. That, more than anything, is the biggest Orion takeaway: AR is going to be a real thing. Much else remains to be determined.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe Gen AI Bridge to the FutureDateMonday, December 2, 2024The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024The Apple Vision ProDateTuesday, February 6, 2024←An Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth About Orion and Reality LabsTaking Waymo, Uber and Waymo→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air More on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationMonday, September 30, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed the Meta Connect keynote and the Orion augmented reality glasses.On to the Update:More on OrionIn case you missed it, I posted my initial reaction to Meta’s Orion augmented reality glasses at the top ofThursday’s Stratechery Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth. I felt that the announcement was important enough that I didn’t want to wait until Monday, but I do have some additional thoughts; to make things simpler I’m going to write as if Thursday’s preamble did not exist, so this is the rare example where I don’t exhort you to read a link of mine first!The Orion demo took place in a dedicated demo room (the same one that they filmed the reaction of various celebrities to Orion in); that means I did not experience Orion outdoors, my experience was fully monitored (and I didn’t actually have the puck in my pocket), but I was able to walk around freely. There was a “script” that the demo followed, but once I put them on I found it so intuitive that I immediately started just “clicking” around, which the demo-givers were fine with.Orion uses eye-tracking a la the Vision Pro, with a similar selection mechanism; the eye-tracking seemed just as accurate as Apple’s, although I wasn’t doing a side-by-side comparison. The forefinger detection, meanwhile, was clearly better, thanks to the wristband that detects electrical signals in your wrist. This really, really works, easily distinguishing between individual fingers. In fact, this was one of the parts of the demo I had the hardest time with: forefinger is “select” while middle finger is “home”, and I found remembering the distinction to be cognitively burdensome; I felt like an old person in the 80s or 90s trying to remember the difference between a left click and right click on a Windows PC, and suddenly understood why the Mac only ever had one button on the mouse. Of course this also suggests that this is a distinction that would likely become second-nature over time; I’ll see how I handle distinct actions for the ring finger and pinkie!Three demos really stood out for me. First, the notification flow was as cool as you might imagine. You can be doing something else — either in augmented reality, or just in the real world — and you can see and click into a notification simply by moving your eyes and touching your fingers together. The lack of friction is amazing. Second, while you can pin applications in physical space like the Vision Pro, you can also pin them in your vision, so that they stay in view even as you physically move around. It’s kind of an obvious thing to do for glasses meant to be worn out-and-about, but it was still striking. Third, I really enjoyed the two games that I played; one was a space-invader type game and the other was Pong, played with another Orion wearer. That noted, there weren’t a ton of apps; this is obviously an area that Meta will need to focus on heavily over the next couple of years.One thing that really surprised me came in the context of taking video calls. My first call was with another person using their phone camera who was standing just outside the demo room. My second call was with someone using the webcam on their computer in a weird box-like office, or so I thought. In fact, it turned out that person was using a Quest headset and aCodec Avatar, Meta’s name for photorealistic avatars. I was legitimately fooled, at least for the first 15 seconds or so. Now I suppose you could chalk this up to Orion’s relatively low resolution, but at least for this call the avatar was good enough that it escaped the uncanny reality effect that you might expect from photorealistic avatars. This is, I should note, another feature that hasn’t shipped, but the quality was definitely much higher than I expected.The final thing to emphasize is just how comfortable the Orion glasses were. At no point did I find them heavy or unwieldy. Granted, I do have a pretty big head with a nose that offers good support, and I’m used to wearing glasses, but I don’t think that I would have any problem wearing Orion for an extended amount of time.Where Vision Pro Went WrongJust to reemphasize a point that I made on Thursday, Orion is a prototype, and I get the impression that an actual consumer product won’t ship for at least three years. The Apple Vision Pro is a product you can buy in stores today, so any comparison should be grounded in that reality. That caveat, though, is actually somewhat immaterial to one of my biggest takeaways from trying Orion. The problems Orion highlights with the Vision Pro are not about Apple’s execution, but about the entire set of tradeoffs the company made with their headset; the way to fix the problems exposed is not to execute better or innovate more, but to completely rework the entire project.Specifically, Apple made a host of trade-offs in building the Vision Pro that were focused on passthrough, i.e. the ability to see the world around you. Apple delivered super high resolution screens married to an entire subsystem — including a dedicated processor — that lets you perceive the world around you in as close to real-time as possible. To do that, though, required a more expensive headset, with higher thermal and power requirements, that — and this is the key point — still isn’t good enough. The Vision Pro has a frustratingly narrow field of view, you can still see pixels, and the pass-through kind of falls apart when you move your head quickly; moreover, all of this is packed into a headset that is big and heavy and has a cord attached to it.The reality is that the only truly satisfactory answer to passthrough is to not need it at all. Orion has perfect field-of-view and infinite resolution because you’re looking at the real world; it’s also dramatically smaller and lighter. Moreover, this perfect fidelity actually gives more degrees of freedom in terms of delivering the AR experience: no matter how high resolution the display is, it will still be lower resolution than the world around it; I tried a version of Orion with double the resolution and, honestly, it wasn’t that different, because the magic was in having augmented reality at all, not in its resolution. I suspect the same thing applies to field of view: 70 degrees seemed massive on Orion, even though that is less than the Vision Pro’s 100 degrees, because the edge of the field of view for Orion was reality, whereas the edge for the Vision Pro is, well, nothing.And, on the flip side, Meta’s implementation of pass-through on the Quest 3 (and now the Quest 3S) makes much more sense. Both devices have color pass-through, albeit with lower resolution and higher latency than Apple Vision Pro; it’s good enough, though, to make sure you don’t run into furniture while playing a game, or to have a quick conversation with someone in the real world without taking your headset off. That’s enough! Meta treats pass-through as a baseline feature, not a selling point, and that’s one reason they can deliver a headset that is much cheaper and lighter and with a larger field of view.I think the best explanation for Apple’s choices was provided by John Gruber on the most recent episode ofDithering: to the extent Apple wants to spur development of AR applications is the extent that they need to deliver the best AR experience they can today, and again, the Vision Pro is shipping, and Orion is not. In other words, the Vision Pro actually is the best AR device you can actually buy and develop for (the presence of things like “Eyesight”, the weird virtual eye-displaying screen on the exterior of the Vision Pro, emphasize the extent to which Apple is indeed focused on AR). The problem, though, is that no one is buying it or developing for it, which means it’s all kind of a waste of time. Apple would have been better served delivering a more Quest-like experience at a much higher comfort level and much lower price point, and focused its efforts on producing an Orion-like set of glasses for AR.Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationHere’s the good news for Apple: Orion is just a prototype, and they have plenty of time to take to heart the helpful critique that Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg just delivered of their approach.First, I think the next Apple Vision (don’t call it “Pro”) should basically be Apple’s version of the Quest. It should be primarily a VR headset with much simpler and cheaper pass-through, that is primarily focused on delivering a great entertainment experience. The central question for development should be the resolution of the screens; Vision Pro’s high resolution is great for entertainment and for things like projecting your Mac environment, but they do come with big trade-offs in terms of cost in particular. I personally think that Apple should match the Quest, with the goal of building up a larger userbase that will spur developers and entertainment providers to build content for their platform; I think the risk of being overwhelmed by the Quest ecosystem a la Windows versus the Mac is a real one.Second, of course I assume that Apple is working on its own glasses project; the company should absolutely redouble efforts here with the goal of beating Meta to market. That certainly seems like a reasonable bet, given Apple’s long-demonstrated expertise at manufacturing high-precision devices at scale; Meta’s challenges here are considerable, both in absolute terms — making Orion will be really hard! — and in relative terms, given the company’s relative dearth of experience in making high-end consumer electronics at scale.Third, I think that Apple should be somewhat more explicit than usual about this shift in strategy. Yes, CEO Tim Cook has talked about the company being more focused on AR than VR, but I think the company would benefit from developers understanding that they actually received a preview of AR with the Vision Pro, not an end in-and-of-itself. That means that it is a platform worth investing in, because it will be something much more meaningful when its vision manifests in glasses. It’s the same story with entertainment; in this case the payoff for development now is access to a much larger addressable market in the context of the much cheaper headset I am advocating for.I don’t, of course, expect Apple to listen to point three, even if the returns from the company’s secrecy seem to be rapidly diminishing. Points one and two, though, seem super obvious to me, and I am very eager to see if they are super obvious to Apple’s management. As I noted above, Zuckerberg might as well have gotten on stage and given a PowerPoint presentation about what Apple got wrong with the Vision Pro; if Apple takes the critique to heart and pivots quickly then it will both be an attestation of the company’s continued vitality and a big problem for Meta.This raises the most interesting question of all: why did Meta show Orion? The most obvious potential outcome is what I just explained: giving a clear roadmap for Apple to catch up on VR headsets and beat them to market with AR. That’s a pretty big risk!The most obvious explanation is that Orion is likely to significantly relieve the pressure the company has been getting from Wall Street about the money it is spending on Reality Labs. It’s one thing to tell investors that the company has a plan to own the next platform after the smartphone; it’s another to actually show a product where that seems plausible.The second reason is to boost internal morale. One thing that I found encouraging for Meta is the number of employees I saw at the company’s headquarters wearing the Ray-Ban smart glasses: that is actually a cool product that employees don’t have to be forced to use. Orion builds on that momentum, as employees in Reality Labs feel validated, and other useful people in the space feel motivated to work at Meta, or work on the platform from the outside.The third reason is to light a massive fire under the folks responsible for Orion shipping. Even if you think that Reality Labs is worth investing in,there is plenty of evidencethat the division has been moving too slowly; moving slowly now, though, isn’t an option. Apple is positioned to steal their thunder and has been given the roadmap to do so.There is one more angle that is worth considering: should Meta give building a smartphone another go? That is another huge advantage that Apple could bring to the table: instead of having a “puck” in your pocket, you could have an iPhone providing connectivity and compute to the company’s glasses, and perhaps a future Apple Watch or Watch band that provides a control interface. That not only means you don’t need to carry an extra device, but also ensures you have all of the apps you depend on, and a way to interact with them if your battery dies. I suggested on Thursday that the puck should have a hardware keyboard; maybe, though, it should just be a smartphone that is mostly unremarkable but for the fact it is the only way to get AR glasses.That is enough for now, but there will be more to say on all of this in the future. That, more than anything, is the biggest Orion takeaway: AR is going to be a real thing. Much else remains to be determined.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe Gen AI Bridge to the FutureDateMonday, December 2, 2024The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024The Apple Vision ProDateTuesday, February 6, 2024←An Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth About Orion and Reality LabsTaking Waymo, Uber and Waymo→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All More on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationMonday, September 30, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed the Meta Connect keynote and the Orion augmented reality glasses.On to the Update:More on OrionIn case you missed it, I posted my initial reaction to Meta’s Orion augmented reality glasses at the top ofThursday’s Stratechery Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth. I felt that the announcement was important enough that I didn’t want to wait until Monday, but I do have some additional thoughts; to make things simpler I’m going to write as if Thursday’s preamble did not exist, so this is the rare example where I don’t exhort you to read a link of mine first!The Orion demo took place in a dedicated demo room (the same one that they filmed the reaction of various celebrities to Orion in); that means I did not experience Orion outdoors, my experience was fully monitored (and I didn’t actually have the puck in my pocket), but I was able to walk around freely. There was a “script” that the demo followed, but once I put them on I found it so intuitive that I immediately started just “clicking” around, which the demo-givers were fine with.Orion uses eye-tracking a la the Vision Pro, with a similar selection mechanism; the eye-tracking seemed just as accurate as Apple’s, although I wasn’t doing a side-by-side comparison. The forefinger detection, meanwhile, was clearly better, thanks to the wristband that detects electrical signals in your wrist. This really, really works, easily distinguishing between individual fingers. In fact, this was one of the parts of the demo I had the hardest time with: forefinger is “select” while middle finger is “home”, and I found remembering the distinction to be cognitively burdensome; I felt like an old person in the 80s or 90s trying to remember the difference between a left click and right click on a Windows PC, and suddenly understood why the Mac only ever had one button on the mouse. Of course this also suggests that this is a distinction that would likely become second-nature over time; I’ll see how I handle distinct actions for the ring finger and pinkie!Three demos really stood out for me. First, the notification flow was as cool as you might imagine. You can be doing something else — either in augmented reality, or just in the real world — and you can see and click into a notification simply by moving your eyes and touching your fingers together. The lack of friction is amazing. Second, while you can pin applications in physical space like the Vision Pro, you can also pin them in your vision, so that they stay in view even as you physically move around. It’s kind of an obvious thing to do for glasses meant to be worn out-and-about, but it was still striking. Third, I really enjoyed the two games that I played; one was a space-invader type game and the other was Pong, played with another Orion wearer. That noted, there weren’t a ton of apps; this is obviously an area that Meta will need to focus on heavily over the next couple of years.One thing that really surprised me came in the context of taking video calls. My first call was with another person using their phone camera who was standing just outside the demo room. My second call was with someone using the webcam on their computer in a weird box-like office, or so I thought. In fact, it turned out that person was using a Quest headset and aCodec Avatar, Meta’s name for photorealistic avatars. I was legitimately fooled, at least for the first 15 seconds or so. Now I suppose you could chalk this up to Orion’s relatively low resolution, but at least for this call the avatar was good enough that it escaped the uncanny reality effect that you might expect from photorealistic avatars. This is, I should note, another feature that hasn’t shipped, but the quality was definitely much higher than I expected.The final thing to emphasize is just how comfortable the Orion glasses were. At no point did I find them heavy or unwieldy. Granted, I do have a pretty big head with a nose that offers good support, and I’m used to wearing glasses, but I don’t think that I would have any problem wearing Orion for an extended amount of time.Where Vision Pro Went WrongJust to reemphasize a point that I made on Thursday, Orion is a prototype, and I get the impression that an actual consumer product won’t ship for at least three years. The Apple Vision Pro is a product you can buy in stores today, so any comparison should be grounded in that reality. That caveat, though, is actually somewhat immaterial to one of my biggest takeaways from trying Orion. The problems Orion highlights with the Vision Pro are not about Apple’s execution, but about the entire set of tradeoffs the company made with their headset; the way to fix the problems exposed is not to execute better or innovate more, but to completely rework the entire project.Specifically, Apple made a host of trade-offs in building the Vision Pro that were focused on passthrough, i.e. the ability to see the world around you. Apple delivered super high resolution screens married to an entire subsystem — including a dedicated processor — that lets you perceive the world around you in as close to real-time as possible. To do that, though, required a more expensive headset, with higher thermal and power requirements, that — and this is the key point — still isn’t good enough. The Vision Pro has a frustratingly narrow field of view, you can still see pixels, and the pass-through kind of falls apart when you move your head quickly; moreover, all of this is packed into a headset that is big and heavy and has a cord attached to it.The reality is that the only truly satisfactory answer to passthrough is to not need it at all. Orion has perfect field-of-view and infinite resolution because you’re looking at the real world; it’s also dramatically smaller and lighter. Moreover, this perfect fidelity actually gives more degrees of freedom in terms of delivering the AR experience: no matter how high resolution the display is, it will still be lower resolution than the world around it; I tried a version of Orion with double the resolution and, honestly, it wasn’t that different, because the magic was in having augmented reality at all, not in its resolution. I suspect the same thing applies to field of view: 70 degrees seemed massive on Orion, even though that is less than the Vision Pro’s 100 degrees, because the edge of the field of view for Orion was reality, whereas the edge for the Vision Pro is, well, nothing.And, on the flip side, Meta’s implementation of pass-through on the Quest 3 (and now the Quest 3S) makes much more sense. Both devices have color pass-through, albeit with lower resolution and higher latency than Apple Vision Pro; it’s good enough, though, to make sure you don’t run into furniture while playing a game, or to have a quick conversation with someone in the real world without taking your headset off. That’s enough! Meta treats pass-through as a baseline feature, not a selling point, and that’s one reason they can deliver a headset that is much cheaper and lighter and with a larger field of view.I think the best explanation for Apple’s choices was provided by John Gruber on the most recent episode ofDithering: to the extent Apple wants to spur development of AR applications is the extent that they need to deliver the best AR experience they can today, and again, the Vision Pro is shipping, and Orion is not. In other words, the Vision Pro actually is the best AR device you can actually buy and develop for (the presence of things like “Eyesight”, the weird virtual eye-displaying screen on the exterior of the Vision Pro, emphasize the extent to which Apple is indeed focused on AR). The problem, though, is that no one is buying it or developing for it, which means it’s all kind of a waste of time. Apple would have been better served delivering a more Quest-like experience at a much higher comfort level and much lower price point, and focused its efforts on producing an Orion-like set of glasses for AR.Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationHere’s the good news for Apple: Orion is just a prototype, and they have plenty of time to take to heart the helpful critique that Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg just delivered of their approach.First, I think the next Apple Vision (don’t call it “Pro”) should basically be Apple’s version of the Quest. It should be primarily a VR headset with much simpler and cheaper pass-through, that is primarily focused on delivering a great entertainment experience. The central question for development should be the resolution of the screens; Vision Pro’s high resolution is great for entertainment and for things like projecting your Mac environment, but they do come with big trade-offs in terms of cost in particular. I personally think that Apple should match the Quest, with the goal of building up a larger userbase that will spur developers and entertainment providers to build content for their platform; I think the risk of being overwhelmed by the Quest ecosystem a la Windows versus the Mac is a real one.Second, of course I assume that Apple is working on its own glasses project; the company should absolutely redouble efforts here with the goal of beating Meta to market. That certainly seems like a reasonable bet, given Apple’s long-demonstrated expertise at manufacturing high-precision devices at scale; Meta’s challenges here are considerable, both in absolute terms — making Orion will be really hard! — and in relative terms, given the company’s relative dearth of experience in making high-end consumer electronics at scale.Third, I think that Apple should be somewhat more explicit than usual about this shift in strategy. Yes, CEO Tim Cook has talked about the company being more focused on AR than VR, but I think the company would benefit from developers understanding that they actually received a preview of AR with the Vision Pro, not an end in-and-of-itself. That means that it is a platform worth investing in, because it will be something much more meaningful when its vision manifests in glasses. It’s the same story with entertainment; in this case the payoff for development now is access to a much larger addressable market in the context of the much cheaper headset I am advocating for.I don’t, of course, expect Apple to listen to point three, even if the returns from the company’s secrecy seem to be rapidly diminishing. Points one and two, though, seem super obvious to me, and I am very eager to see if they are super obvious to Apple’s management. As I noted above, Zuckerberg might as well have gotten on stage and given a PowerPoint presentation about what Apple got wrong with the Vision Pro; if Apple takes the critique to heart and pivots quickly then it will both be an attestation of the company’s continued vitality and a big problem for Meta.This raises the most interesting question of all: why did Meta show Orion? The most obvious potential outcome is what I just explained: giving a clear roadmap for Apple to catch up on VR headsets and beat them to market with AR. That’s a pretty big risk!The most obvious explanation is that Orion is likely to significantly relieve the pressure the company has been getting from Wall Street about the money it is spending on Reality Labs. It’s one thing to tell investors that the company has a plan to own the next platform after the smartphone; it’s another to actually show a product where that seems plausible.The second reason is to boost internal morale. One thing that I found encouraging for Meta is the number of employees I saw at the company’s headquarters wearing the Ray-Ban smart glasses: that is actually a cool product that employees don’t have to be forced to use. Orion builds on that momentum, as employees in Reality Labs feel validated, and other useful people in the space feel motivated to work at Meta, or work on the platform from the outside.The third reason is to light a massive fire under the folks responsible for Orion shipping. Even if you think that Reality Labs is worth investing in,there is plenty of evidencethat the division has been moving too slowly; moving slowly now, though, isn’t an option. Apple is positioned to steal their thunder and has been given the roadmap to do so.There is one more angle that is worth considering: should Meta give building a smartphone another go? That is another huge advantage that Apple could bring to the table: instead of having a “puck” in your pocket, you could have an iPhone providing connectivity and compute to the company’s glasses, and perhaps a future Apple Watch or Watch band that provides a control interface. That not only means you don’t need to carry an extra device, but also ensures you have all of the apps you depend on, and a way to interact with them if your battery dies. I suggested on Thursday that the puck should have a hardware keyboard; maybe, though, it should just be a smartphone that is mostly unremarkable but for the fact it is the only way to get AR glasses.That is enough for now, but there will be more to say on all of this in the future. That, more than anything, is the biggest Orion takeaway: AR is going to be a real thing. Much else remains to be determined.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe Gen AI Bridge to the FutureDateMonday, December 2, 2024The 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024The Apple Vision ProDateTuesday, February 6, 2024←An Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth About Orion and Reality LabsTaking Waymo, Uber and Waymo→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed the Meta Connect keynote and the Orion augmented reality glasses.On to the Update:More on OrionIn case you missed it, I posted my initial reaction to Meta’s Orion augmented reality glasses at the top ofThursday’s Stratechery Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth. I felt that the announcement was important enough that I didn’t want to wait until Monday, but I do have some additional thoughts; to make things simpler I’m going to write as if Thursday’s preamble did not exist, so this is the rare example where I don’t exhort you to read a link of mine first!The Orion demo took place in a dedicated demo room (the same one that they filmed the reaction of various celebrities to Orion in); that means I did not experience Orion outdoors, my experience was fully monitored (and I didn’t actually have the puck in my pocket), but I was able to walk around freely. There was a “script” that the demo followed, but once I put them on I found it so intuitive that I immediately started just “clicking” around, which the demo-givers were fine with.Orion uses eye-tracking a la the Vision Pro, with a similar selection mechanism; the eye-tracking seemed just as accurate as Apple’s, although I wasn’t doing a side-by-side comparison. The forefinger detection, meanwhile, was clearly better, thanks to the wristband that detects electrical signals in your wrist. This really, really works, easily distinguishing between individual fingers. In fact, this was one of the parts of the demo I had the hardest time with: forefinger is “select” while middle finger is “home”, and I found remembering the distinction to be cognitively burdensome; I felt like an old person in the 80s or 90s trying to remember the difference between a left click and right click on a Windows PC, and suddenly understood why the Mac only ever had one button on the mouse. Of course this also suggests that this is a distinction that would likely become second-nature over time; I’ll see how I handle distinct actions for the ring finger and pinkie!Three demos really stood out for me. First, the notification flow was as cool as you might imagine. You can be doing something else — either in augmented reality, or just in the real world — and you can see and click into a notification simply by moving your eyes and touching your fingers together. The lack of friction is amazing. Second, while you can pin applications in physical space like the Vision Pro, you can also pin them in your vision, so that they stay in view even as you physically move around. It’s kind of an obvious thing to do for glasses meant to be worn out-and-about, but it was still striking. Third, I really enjoyed the two games that I played; one was a space-invader type game and the other was Pong, played with another Orion wearer. That noted, there weren’t a ton of apps; this is obviously an area that Meta will need to focus on heavily over the next couple of years.One thing that really surprised me came in the context of taking video calls. My first call was with another person using their phone camera who was standing just outside the demo room. My second call was with someone using the webcam on their computer in a weird box-like office, or so I thought. In fact, it turned out that person was using a Quest headset and aCodec Avatar, Meta’s name for photorealistic avatars. I was legitimately fooled, at least for the first 15 seconds or so. Now I suppose you could chalk this up to Orion’s relatively low resolution, but at least for this call the avatar was good enough that it escaped the uncanny reality effect that you might expect from photorealistic avatars. This is, I should note, another feature that hasn’t shipped, but the quality was definitely much higher than I expected.The final thing to emphasize is just how comfortable the Orion glasses were. At no point did I find them heavy or unwieldy. Granted, I do have a pretty big head with a nose that offers good support, and I’m used to wearing glasses, but I don’t think that I would have any problem wearing Orion for an extended amount of time.Where Vision Pro Went WrongJust to reemphasize a point that I made on Thursday, Orion is a prototype, and I get the impression that an actual consumer product won’t ship for at least three years. The Apple Vision Pro is a product you can buy in stores today, so any comparison should be grounded in that reality. That caveat, though, is actually somewhat immaterial to one of my biggest takeaways from trying Orion. The problems Orion highlights with the Vision Pro are not about Apple’s execution, but about the entire set of tradeoffs the company made with their headset; the way to fix the problems exposed is not to execute better or innovate more, but to completely rework the entire project.Specifically, Apple made a host of trade-offs in building the Vision Pro that were focused on passthrough, i.e. the ability to see the world around you. Apple delivered super high resolution screens married to an entire subsystem — including a dedicated processor — that lets you perceive the world around you in as close to real-time as possible. To do that, though, required a more expensive headset, with higher thermal and power requirements, that — and this is the key point — still isn’t good enough. The Vision Pro has a frustratingly narrow field of view, you can still see pixels, and the pass-through kind of falls apart when you move your head quickly; moreover, all of this is packed into a headset that is big and heavy and has a cord attached to it.The reality is that the only truly satisfactory answer to passthrough is to not need it at all. Orion has perfect field-of-view and infinite resolution because you’re looking at the real world; it’s also dramatically smaller and lighter. Moreover, this perfect fidelity actually gives more degrees of freedom in terms of delivering the AR experience: no matter how high resolution the display is, it will still be lower resolution than the world around it; I tried a version of Orion with double the resolution and, honestly, it wasn’t that different, because the magic was in having augmented reality at all, not in its resolution. I suspect the same thing applies to field of view: 70 degrees seemed massive on Orion, even though that is less than the Vision Pro’s 100 degrees, because the edge of the field of view for Orion was reality, whereas the edge for the Vision Pro is, well, nothing.And, on the flip side, Meta’s implementation of pass-through on the Quest 3 (and now the Quest 3S) makes much more sense. Both devices have color pass-through, albeit with lower resolution and higher latency than Apple Vision Pro; it’s good enough, though, to make sure you don’t run into furniture while playing a game, or to have a quick conversation with someone in the real world without taking your headset off. That’s enough! Meta treats pass-through as a baseline feature, not a selling point, and that’s one reason they can deliver a headset that is much cheaper and lighter and with a larger field of view.I think the best explanation for Apple’s choices was provided by John Gruber on the most recent episode ofDithering: to the extent Apple wants to spur development of AR applications is the extent that they need to deliver the best AR experience they can today, and again, the Vision Pro is shipping, and Orion is not. In other words, the Vision Pro actually is the best AR device you can actually buy and develop for (the presence of things like “Eyesight”, the weird virtual eye-displaying screen on the exterior of the Vision Pro, emphasize the extent to which Apple is indeed focused on AR). The problem, though, is that no one is buying it or developing for it, which means it’s all kind of a waste of time. Apple would have been better served delivering a more Quest-like experience at a much higher comfort level and much lower price point, and focused its efforts on producing an Orion-like set of glasses for AR.Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationHere’s the good news for Apple: Orion is just a prototype, and they have plenty of time to take to heart the helpful critique that Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg just delivered of their approach.First, I think the next Apple Vision (don’t call it “Pro”) should basically be Apple’s version of the Quest. It should be primarily a VR headset with much simpler and cheaper pass-through, that is primarily focused on delivering a great entertainment experience. The central question for development should be the resolution of the screens; Vision Pro’s high resolution is great for entertainment and for things like projecting your Mac environment, but they do come with big trade-offs in terms of cost in particular. I personally think that Apple should match the Quest, with the goal of building up a larger userbase that will spur developers and entertainment providers to build content for their platform; I think the risk of being overwhelmed by the Quest ecosystem a la Windows versus the Mac is a real one.Second, of course I assume that Apple is working on its own glasses project; the company should absolutely redouble efforts here with the goal of beating Meta to market. That certainly seems like a reasonable bet, given Apple’s long-demonstrated expertise at manufacturing high-precision devices at scale; Meta’s challenges here are considerable, both in absolute terms — making Orion will be really hard! — and in relative terms, given the company’s relative dearth of experience in making high-end consumer electronics at scale.Third, I think that Apple should be somewhat more explicit than usual about this shift in strategy. Yes, CEO Tim Cook has talked about the company being more focused on AR than VR, but I think the company would benefit from developers understanding that they actually received a preview of AR with the Vision Pro, not an end in-and-of-itself. That means that it is a platform worth investing in, because it will be something much more meaningful when its vision manifests in glasses. It’s the same story with entertainment; in this case the payoff for development now is access to a much larger addressable market in the context of the much cheaper headset I am advocating for.I don’t, of course, expect Apple to listen to point three, even if the returns from the company’s secrecy seem to be rapidly diminishing. Points one and two, though, seem super obvious to me, and I am very eager to see if they are super obvious to Apple’s management. As I noted above, Zuckerberg might as well have gotten on stage and given a PowerPoint presentation about what Apple got wrong with the Vision Pro; if Apple takes the critique to heart and pivots quickly then it will both be an attestation of the company’s continued vitality and a big problem for Meta.This raises the most interesting question of all: why did Meta show Orion? The most obvious potential outcome is what I just explained: giving a clear roadmap for Apple to catch up on VR headsets and beat them to market with AR. That’s a pretty big risk!The most obvious explanation is that Orion is likely to significantly relieve the pressure the company has been getting from Wall Street about the money it is spending on Reality Labs. It’s one thing to tell investors that the company has a plan to own the next platform after the smartphone; it’s another to actually show a product where that seems plausible.The second reason is to boost internal morale. One thing that I found encouraging for Meta is the number of employees I saw at the company’s headquarters wearing the Ray-Ban smart glasses: that is actually a cool product that employees don’t have to be forced to use. Orion builds on that momentum, as employees in Reality Labs feel validated, and other useful people in the space feel motivated to work at Meta, or work on the platform from the outside.The third reason is to light a massive fire under the folks responsible for Orion shipping. Even if you think that Reality Labs is worth investing in,there is plenty of evidencethat the division has been moving too slowly; moving slowly now, though, isn’t an option. Apple is positioned to steal their thunder and has been given the roadmap to do so.There is one more angle that is worth considering: should Meta give building a smartphone another go? That is another huge advantage that Apple could bring to the table: instead of having a “puck” in your pocket, you could have an iPhone providing connectivity and compute to the company’s glasses, and perhaps a future Apple Watch or Watch band that provides a control interface. That not only means you don’t need to carry an extra device, but also ensures you have all of the apps you depend on, and a way to interact with them if your battery dies. I suggested on Thursday that the puck should have a hardware keyboard; maybe, though, it should just be a smartphone that is mostly unremarkable but for the fact it is the only way to get AR glasses.That is enough for now, but there will be more to say on all of this in the future. That, more than anything, is the biggest Orion takeaway: AR is going to be a real thing. Much else remains to be determined.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email In case you missed it, I posted my initial reaction to Meta’s Orion augmented reality glasses at the top ofThursday’s Stratechery Interview with Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth. I felt that the announcement was important enough that I didn’t want to wait until Monday, but I do have some additional thoughts; to make things simpler I’m going to write as if Thursday’s preamble did not exist, so this is the rare example where I don’t exhort you to read a link of mine first! The Orion demo took place in a dedicated demo room (the same one that they filmed the reaction of various celebrities to Orion in); that means I did not experience Orion outdoors, my experience was fully monitored (and I didn’t actually have the puck in my pocket), but I was able to walk around freely. There was a “script” that the demo followed, but once I put them on I found it so intuitive that I immediately started just “clicking” around, which the demo-givers were fine with. Orion uses eye-tracking a la the Vision Pro, with a similar selection mechanism; the eye-tracking seemed just as accurate as Apple’s, although I wasn’t doing a side-by-side comparison. The forefinger detection, meanwhile, was clearly better, thanks to the wristband that detects electrical signals in your wrist. This really, really works, easily distinguishing between individual fingers. In fact, this was one of the parts of the demo I had the hardest time with: forefinger is “select” while middle finger is “home”, and I found remembering the distinction to be cognitively burdensome; I felt like an old person in the 80s or 90s trying to remember the difference between a left click and right click on a Windows PC, and suddenly understood why the Mac only ever had one button on the mouse. Of course this also suggests that this is a distinction that would likely become second-nature over time; I’ll see how I handle distinct actions for the ring finger and pinkie! Three demos really stood out for me. First, the notification flow was as cool as you might imagine. You can be doing something else — either in augmented reality, or just in the real world — and you can see and click into a notification simply by moving your eyes and touching your fingers together. The lack of friction is amazing. Second, while you can pin applications in physical space like the Vision Pro, you can also pin them in your vision, so that they stay in view even as you physically move around. It’s kind of an obvious thing to do for glasses meant to be worn out-and-about, but it was still striking. Third, I really enjoyed the two games that I played; one was a space-invader type game and the other was Pong, played with another Orion wearer. That noted, there weren’t a ton of apps; this is obviously an area that Meta will need to focus on heavily over the next couple of years. One thing that really surprised me came in the context of taking video calls. My first call was with another person using their phone camera who was standing just outside the demo room. My second call was with someone using the webcam on their computer in a weird box-like office, or so I thought. In fact, it turned out that person was using a Quest headset and aCodec Avatar, Meta’s name for photorealistic avatars. I was legitimately fooled, at least for the first 15 seconds or so. Now I suppose you could chalk this up to Orion’s relatively low resolution, but at least for this call the avatar was good enough that it escaped the uncanny reality effect that you might expect from photorealistic avatars. This is, I should note, another feature that hasn’t shipped, but the quality was definitely much higher than I expected. The final thing to emphasize is just how comfortable the Orion glasses were. At no point did I find them heavy or unwieldy. Granted, I do have a pretty big head with a nose that offers good support, and I’m used to wearing glasses, but I don’t think that I would have any problem wearing Orion for an extended amount of time. Just to reemphasize a point that I made on Thursday, Orion is a prototype, and I get the impression that an actual consumer product won’t ship for at least three years. The Apple Vision Pro is a product you can buy in stores today, so any comparison should be grounded in that reality. That caveat, though, is actually somewhat immaterial to one of my biggest takeaways from trying Orion. The problems Orion highlights with the Vision Pro are not about Apple’s execution, but about the entire set of tradeoffs the company made with their headset; the way to fix the problems exposed is not to execute better or innovate more, but to completely rework the entire project. Specifically, Apple made a host of trade-offs in building the Vision Pro that were focused on passthrough, i.e. the ability to see the world around you. Apple delivered super high resolution screens married to an entire subsystem — including a dedicated processor — that lets you perceive the world around you in as close to real-time as possible. To do that, though, required a more expensive headset, with higher thermal and power requirements, that — and this is the key point — still isn’t good enough. The Vision Pro has a frustratingly narrow field of view, you can still see pixels, and the pass-through kind of falls apart when you move your head quickly; moreover, all of this is packed into a headset that is big and heavy and has a cord attached to it. The reality is that the only truly satisfactory answer to passthrough is to not need it at all. Orion has perfect field-of-view and infinite resolution because you’re looking at the real world; it’s also dramatically smaller and lighter. Moreover, this perfect fidelity actually gives more degrees of freedom in terms of delivering the AR experience: no matter how high resolution the display is, it will still be lower resolution than the world around it; I tried a version of Orion with double the resolution and, honestly, it wasn’t that different, because the magic was in having augmented reality at all, not in its resolution. I suspect the same thing applies to field of view: 70 degrees seemed massive on Orion, even though that is less than the Vision Pro’s 100 degrees, because the edge of the field of view for Orion was reality, whereas the edge for the Vision Pro is, well, nothing. And, on the flip side, Meta’s implementation of pass-through on the Quest 3 (and now the Quest 3S) makes much more sense. Both devices have color pass-through, albeit with lower resolution and higher latency than Apple Vision Pro; it’s good enough, though, to make sure you don’t run into furniture while playing a game, or to have a quick conversation with someone in the real world without taking your headset off. That’s enough! Meta treats pass-through as a baseline feature, not a selling point, and that’s one reason they can deliver a headset that is much cheaper and lighter and with a larger field of view. I think the best explanation for Apple’s choices was provided by John Gruber on the most recent episode ofDithering: to the extent Apple wants to spur development of AR applications is the extent that they need to deliver the best AR experience they can today, and again, the Vision Pro is shipping, and Orion is not. In other words, the Vision Pro actually is the best AR device you can actually buy and develop for (the presence of things like “Eyesight”, the weird virtual eye-displaying screen on the exterior of the Vision Pro, emphasize the extent to which Apple is indeed focused on AR). The problem, though, is that no one is buying it or developing for it, which means it’s all kind of a waste of time. Apple would have been better served delivering a more Quest-like experience at a much higher comfort level and much lower price point, and focused its efforts on producing an Orion-like set of glasses for AR. First, I think the next Apple Vision (don’t call it “Pro”) should basically be Apple’s version of the Quest. It should be primarily a VR headset with much simpler and cheaper pass-through, that is primarily focused on delivering a great entertainment experience. The central question for development should be the resolution of the screens; Vision Pro’s high resolution is great for entertainment and for things like projecting your Mac environment, but they do come with big trade-offs in terms of cost in particular. I personally think that Apple should match the Quest, with the goal of building up a larger userbase that will spur developers and entertainment providers to build content for their platform; I think the risk of being overwhelmed by the Quest ecosystem a la Windows versus the Mac is a real one. Second, of course I assume that Apple is working on its own glasses project; the company should absolutely redouble efforts here with the goal of beating Meta to market. That certainly seems like a reasonable bet, given Apple’s long-demonstrated expertise at manufacturing high-precision devices at scale; Meta’s challenges here are considerable, both in absolute terms — making Orion will be really hard! — and in relative terms, given the company’s relative dearth of experience in making high-end consumer electronics at scale. Third, I think that Apple should be somewhat more explicit than usual about this shift in strategy. Yes, CEO Tim Cook has talked about the company being more focused on AR than VR, but I think the company would benefit from developers understanding that they actually received a preview of AR with the Vision Pro, not an end in-and-of-itself. That means that it is a platform worth investing in, because it will be something much more meaningful when its vision manifests in glasses. It’s the same story with entertainment; in this case the payoff for development now is access to a much larger addressable market in the context of the much cheaper headset I am advocating for. I don’t, of course, expect Apple to listen to point three, even if the returns from the company’s secrecy seem to be rapidly diminishing. Points one and two, though, seem super obvious to me, and I am very eager to see if they are super obvious to Apple’s management. As I noted above, Zuckerberg might as well have gotten on stage and given a PowerPoint presentation about what Apple got wrong with the Vision Pro; if Apple takes the critique to heart and pivots quickly then it will both be an attestation of the company’s continued vitality and a big problem for Meta. This raises the most interesting question of all: why did Meta show Orion? The most obvious potential outcome is what I just explained: giving a clear roadmap for Apple to catch up on VR headsets and beat them to market with AR. That’s a pretty big risk! The most obvious explanation is that Orion is likely to significantly relieve the pressure the company has been getting from Wall Street about the money it is spending on Reality Labs. It’s one thing to tell investors that the company has a plan to own the next platform after the smartphone; it’s another to actually show a product where that seems plausible. The second reason is to boost internal morale. One thing that I found encouraging for Meta is the number of employees I saw at the company’s headquarters wearing the Ray-Ban smart glasses: that is actually a cool product that employees don’t have to be forced to use. Orion builds on that momentum, as employees in Reality Labs feel validated, and other useful people in the space feel motivated to work at Meta, or work on the platform from the outside. The third reason is to light a massive fire under the folks responsible for Orion shipping. Even if you think that Reality Labs is worth investing in,there is plenty of evidencethat the division has been moving too slowly; moving slowly now, though, isn’t an option. Apple is positioned to steal their thunder and has been given the roadmap to do so. There is one more angle that is worth considering: should Meta give building a smartphone another go? That is another huge advantage that Apple could bring to the table: instead of having a “puck” in your pocket, you could have an iPhone providing connectivity and compute to the company’s glasses, and perhaps a future Apple Watch or Watch band that provides a control interface. That not only means you don’t need to carry an extra device, but also ensures you have all of the apps you depend on, and a way to interact with them if your battery dies. I suggested on Thursday that the puck should have a hardware keyboard; maybe, though, it should just be a smartphone that is mostly unremarkable but for the fact it is the only way to get AR glasses. That is enough for now, but there will be more to say on all of this in the future. That, more than anything, is the biggest Orion takeaway: AR is going to be a real thing. Much else remains to be determined. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025