# [PODCAST] Can we just change how we measure GDP?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/03/21/1239865438/change-gross-domestic-product-gdp
**Atlas ID**: 229451
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.838953

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Can the U.S. just change how it measures GDP? : Planet MoneyThere's one statistic that rules them all when it comes to keeping track of the economy: gross domestic product (GDP). It's the sum of all final transactions, so all the goods or services bought and sold, in an economy. GDP tells us how hot the economy is running, or how cool — like if we might be heading into a recession. And it's an important tool to compare countries, policies, and politicians. It's used by the U.S. government to allocate money and by businesses to make decisions about the future.For close to a century the building blocks of GDP have been the same. Now Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, hasproposeda big change: taking government spending out of GDP.On today's show, can the U.S. change how it measures GDP? We talk with a former head of the BEA — about what he thinks they're likely to do now, and about the pressure he faced while trying to compile GDP for nearly two decades. Turns out, people have always been trying to bend it to make whatever grand project they're working on look better.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkCan we just change how we measure GDP?March 21, 20255:44 PM ETByNick Fountain,Mary Childs,Jess Jiang,Emma PeasleeCan we just change how we measure GDP?Listen·22:1622:16TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1239865438/1268252557" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageHoward Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTierney L. Cross/Getty ImagesHoward Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty ImagesThere's one statistic that rules them all when it comes to keeping track of the economy: gross domestic product (GDP). It's the sum of all final transactions, so all the goods or services bought and sold, in an economy. GDP tells us how hot the economy is running, or how cool — like if we might be heading into a recession. And it's an important tool to compare countries, policies, and politicians. It's used by the U.S. government to allocate money and by businesses to make decisions about the future.For close to a century the building blocks of GDP have been the same. Though there have been updates to the methodology behind calculating it. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, the federal agency that calculates it, is constantly tweaking their process to make GDP accurately reflect the changing economy.Sponsor MessageNow the BEA's boss, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, hasproposeda much bigger change: taking government spending out of GDP.On today's show, can the U.S. change how it measures GDP? We talk with a former head of the BEA — about what he thinks they're likely to do now, and about the pressure he faced while trying to compile GDP for nearly two decades. Turns out, people have always been trying to bend it to make whatever grand project they're working on look better.For more:Recession refereesHedonic adjustment: how to measure pleasurePlanet Money Summer School 2: GDP & What CountsThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Emma Peaslee and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio- "Backstreet Boogie," "We Gave Up Too Soon," and "I Won't Give Up"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Can we just change how we measure GDP?Listen·22:1622:16TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1239865438/1268252557" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Can we just change how we measure GDP?Listen·22:1622:16TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1239865438/1268252557" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1239865438/1268252557" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageHoward Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTierney L. Cross/Getty ImagesHoward Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty ImagesThere's one statistic that rules them all when it comes to keeping track of the economy: gross domestic product (GDP). It's the sum of all final transactions, so all the goods or services bought and sold, in an economy. GDP tells us how hot the economy is running, or how cool — like if we might be heading into a recession. And it's an important tool to compare countries, policies, and politicians. It's used by the U.S. government to allocate money and by businesses to make decisions about the future.For close to a century the building blocks of GDP have been the same. Though there have been updates to the methodology behind calculating it. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, the federal agency that calculates it, is constantly tweaking their process to make GDP accurately reflect the changing economy.Sponsor MessageNow the BEA's boss, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, hasproposeda much bigger change: taking government spending out of GDP.On today's show, can the U.S. change how it measures GDP? We talk with a former head of the BEA — about what he thinks they're likely to do now, and about the pressure he faced while trying to compile GDP for nearly two decades. Turns out, people have always been trying to bend it to make whatever grand project they're working on look better.For more:Recession refereesHedonic adjustment: how to measure pleasurePlanet Money Summer School 2: GDP & What CountsThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Emma Peaslee and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio- "Backstreet Boogie," "We Gave Up Too Soon," and "I Won't Give Up" Enlarge this imageHoward Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTierney L. Cross/Getty ImagesHoward Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty Images Howard Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionTierney L. Cross/Getty Images Howard Lutnick, US commerce secretary, speaks to reporters following President Trump's joint address to Congress on March 04, 2025 in Washington, DC.Tierney L. Cross/Getty Imageshide captiontoggle caption There's one statistic that rules them all when it comes to keeping track of the economy: gross domestic product (GDP). It's the sum of all final transactions, so all the goods or services bought and sold, in an economy. GDP tells us how hot the economy is running, or how cool — like if we might be heading into a recession. And it's an important tool to compare countries, policies, and politicians. It's used by the U.S. government to allocate money and by businesses to make decisions about the future. For close to a century the building blocks of GDP have been the same. Though there have been updates to the methodology behind calculating it. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, the federal agency that calculates it, is constantly tweaking their process to make GDP accurately reflect the changing economy. On today's show, can the U.S. change how it measures GDP? We talk with a former head of the BEA — about what he thinks they're likely to do now, and about the pressure he faced while trying to compile GDP for nearly two decades. Turns out, people have always been trying to bend it to make whatever grand project they're working on look better. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra