# [PODCAST] Metallica on Vision Pro, Non-Immersive Immersive Video, Ping and AI

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/metallica-on-vision-pro-non-immersive-immersive-video-ping-and-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.EF4efXa0l1KvmOlPGzJiaBaSGSappwR8M3EPjM6loM2NtnYAtPiX6vf9st6coKkz-RfthS2gtVnuf-ti-FipqfHB3o-V7UjTAWilX9ruUgz068bAl0VBsiXqXcR3DGEFXgH8_3CmDo3wnSSxLA-f3pH9Z4DYkAnHOFsyK9XOd1Dx6HKacfgvVQpDQXBInCBUqwelC2e4hZHPxfRWfAka5iBtvl5zO9LZPXLLpo12joy5P_lgt0d-GOqcATnQ3NDeYXEeLimp0qGetk-q7hP3zasgQYzOH14vMxKA5HU0VTX_nuqsBfIl7LtWJXGpW-OlpndTYBgi62ZyRRk4G3eBgg
**Atlas ID**: 229607
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.901519

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMetallica on Vision Pro, Non-Immersive Immersive Video, Ping and AIMonday, March 17, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, John Gruber wrote a must-read article on Daring Fireball entitledSomething Is Rotten in the State of Cupertino, absolutely skewering Apple over the Apple Intelligence fiasco. What Gruber rightly puts his finger on is that the failure here is not that the AI is bad; it’s that Apple gave itself permission to lie not just to its customers but to itself. There were a host of killer lines, including this:However close to financial bankruptcy Apple was when Steve Jobs returned as CEO after the NeXT reunification, the company was already completely bankrupt of credibility. Apple today is the most profitable and financially successful company in the history of the world. Everyone notices such success, and the corresponding accumulation of great wealth. Less noticed, but to my mind the more impressive achievement, is that over the last three decades, the company also accumulated an abundant reserve of credibility. When Apple showed a feature, you could bank on that feature being real. When they said something was set to ship in the coming year, it would ship in the coming year. In the worst case, maybe that “year” would have to be stretched to 13 or 14 months. You can stretch the truth and maintain credibility, but you can’t maintain credibility with bullshit. And the “more personalized Siri” features, it turns out, were bullshit.We also discussed this Article onFriday’s Dithering.On to the Update:Metallica on Vision ProFrom anApple press release:A new Apple Immersive concert experience, Metallica, is coming to Apple Vision Pro this Friday, March 14. Filmed in Mexico City during the sold-out second-year finale of the band’s M72 World Tour, Metallica features full performances of three longtime staples from the band’s stadium-filling live shows — “Whiplash,” “One,” and “Enter Sandman” — and was captured exclusively in Apple Immersive Video. This remarkable storytelling format is only possible on Apple Vision Pro, with ultra-high-resolution 180-degree video and Spatial Audio to give viewers unprecedented access to James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, Kirk Hammett, and Robert Trujillo — from vantage points as close up as the famed Snake Pit, to wide-angle views of the band’s energetic performance in the round…To capture the band’s full performance from multiple perspectives, and the energy of over 65,000 passionate Metallica fans, Apple built a custom stage layout featuring 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.I tried this out over the weekend, and it inspired quite a few thoughts, from the concert, to the Apple Vision Pro, to the current state of Apple.First, before I even got to the concert, I experienced the same feeling I have every time I use the Vision Pro:this is so cool. I’m dead serious: simply unlocking the device with my eyes continues to be a real surprise-and-delight experience; when people ask if Apple is still capable of delivering great experiences, I would honestly point to the Vision Pro, as that feeling continues to extend to much of the interface.The problem, of course, is that putting the headset on feels like a big lift (both literally and figuratively), and then once you get it on it’s not clear what you should do with it. In this case, however, I was looking for this concert…and was disappointed that the Apple TV+ app still doesn’t have a dedicated section for immersive video. Then again, there isn’t that much, so it was easy to find.Non-Immersive Immersive VideoAs for the concert itself, the video was indeed very cool. The opening shot following James Hetfield walking into the stadium was very compelling, and, well, it was immersive. And then you cut to another camera angle, and while that camera angle was also immersive, the video as a whole no longer was.What followed was a very enjoyable 30 minutes or so — I’ll probably watch it again — but it felt like a particularly neat documentary, not like I was at a concert. You had a monologue from each member of the band, you had shots of the crowd, you had three songs, all, as Apple proudly noted in their press release, shot with “14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.” That means the final product was edited together from those 14 cameras and the four interviews, which is to say it was a produced artifact of a live experience; at no point did I feel like I was at the concert.This continues to be a huge disappointment for me and my expectations for the Vision Pro. I wrote inmy first Articleafter the 2023 WWDC introduction of the headset:What was much more compelling were a series of immersive video experiences that Apple did not show in the keynote. The most striking to me were, unsurprisingly, sports. There was one clip of an NBA basketball game that was incredibly realistic: the game clip was shot from the baseline, and as someone who has had the good fortune to sit courtside, it felt exactly the same, and, it must be said, much more immersive than similar experiences on the Quest.It turns out that one reason for the immersion is that Apple actually created its own cameras to capture the game using its new Apple Immersive Video Format. The company was fairly mum about how it planned to make those cameras and its format more widely available, but I am completely serious when I say that I would pay the NBA thousands of dollars to get a season pass to watch games captured in this way. Yes, that’s a crazy statement to make, but courtside seats cost that much or more, and that 10-second clip was shockingly close to the real thing.What is fascinating is that such a season pass should, in my estimation, look very different from a traditional TV broadcast, what with its multiple camera angles, announcers, scoreboard slug, etc. I wouldn’t want any of that: if I want to see the score, I can simply look up at the scoreboard as if I’m in the stadium; the sounds are provided by the crowd and PA announcer. To put it another way, the Apple Immersive Video Format, to a far greater extent than I thought possible, truly makes you feel like you are in a different place.We are nearly two years on from that introduction, and over a year beyond the actual launch of the Vision Pro, and there has yet to be an experience like I envisioned and thought was coming. What is frustrating is that the limiting factor is Apple itself: the company had 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras at this concert, but what I want is only one. I want an Apple Immersive Video camera planted in the audience, and the opportunity to experience the concert as if I were there, without an Apple editor deciding what I get to see and when. Imagine watching the entire concert from here, fully immersed in the Vision Pro:This isn’t the first time I’ve complained about this, either; I wrote inan Update last Aprilabout Apple’s MLS season in review:There are, in a five minute video, 54 distinct shots; that’s an average of one cut every six seconds! Moreover, there wasn’t that much gameplay: only 2 minutes and 32 seconds. Worse, some of the cuts happen in the same highlight — there was one play where there was a sideline view of the ball being passed up the field, and then it switched to a behind-the-goal view for the goal. I actually missed the goal the first time because I was so discombobulated that it took me a few seconds to even figure out where the ball was.In short, this video was created by a team that had zero understanding of the Vision Pro or why sports fans might be so excited about it. I never got the opportunity to feel like I was at one of these games, because the moment I started to feel the atmosphere or some amount of immersion there was another cut (and frankly, the cuts were so fast that I rarely if ever felt anything). This edit may have been perfect for a traditional 2D-video posted on YouTube; the entire point of immersive video on the Vision Pro, though, is that it is an entirely new kind of experience that requires an entirely new approach.Look, I might be totally wrong about this; maybe the only way immersive video is compelling is if it is highly produced like a YouTube video, or, in the case of this concert, like a documentary you might watch on TV. If that’s true, however, then I do question why this device even exists: how much of a market is there really for slightly better and significantly more uncomfortable TV-style video?What is also possible, however, is that Apple is finding itself paralyzed by its need for control. The company can’t just stick a camera at a game and stream the video without any production or play-by-play commentary: what if people are bored? The company can’t just film a concert: what if people are underwhelmed? Instead everything is highly produced and overwrought and slow and scarce, only increasing the pressure on the next release weeks or months later.Here’s one detail I noticed from the concert, by the way: the Apple Immersion Video cameras look like they are getting a lot smaller (you can see two of them in the screen capture above: one is by the drumset, and another is on a stand on the right). If Apple actually did what I suggested, and simply placed a camera in the audience and uploaded the video, how many concerts might be available at this point? Tens? Hundreds? Thousands? Surely enough to justify an immersive video tab in the Apple TV+ app! Would all of these concerts be amazing and worthy of a press release andOfficial Trailer? Almost assuredly not. Would at least a handful be genuinely amazing experiences that would make me feel glad I had a Vision Pro — and perhaps sell a few more models to concert lovers? I think so.Ping and AIHere’s another Apple press release, this timefrom 2010:Apple today announced that in less than 48 hours since its launch on Wednesday, more than one million users have joined Ping, its new social network for music which lets users follow their favorite artists and friends to discover what music they’re talking about, listening to and downloading.“One-third of the people who have downloaded iTunes 10 have joined Ping,“ said Eddy Cue, Apple’s vice president of Internet Services. “As many more people download iTunes 10 in the coming weeks, we expect the Ping community to continue growing.“Ping lets you follow your favorite artists such as Lady Gaga, Coldplay, U2, Jack Johnson, Yo-Yo Ma and more, to see what they’re up to, check out photos and videos they’ve posted, see their tour dates and read comments about other artists and albums they’re listening to. In addition, you can post your thoughts and opinions, your favorite albums and songs, the music you’ve downloaded from iTunes and the concerts you plan to attend.Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.Ping is an old standby when it comes to making jokes about past Apple failures, but that last paragraph — press release boilerplate, obviously — actually helps explain why Ping never had a chance. When you think of Apple you think about their jewel-like devices, about the integration of hardware and software, Jony Ive in a white room, etc. Indeed, you think about the magic of putting on the Apple Vision Pro and having your eyes seamlessly tracked as you touch your fingers together to enter your passcode.All of this is basically the exact opposite of the reality of social media and user-generated content. I wrote the following about Quibi’s failurein 2020:The single most important fact about both movies and television is that they were defined by scarcity: there were only so many movies that would ever be made to fill only so many theater slots, and in the case of TV, there were only 24 hours in a day. That meant that there was significant value in being someone who could figure out what was going to be a hit before it was ever created, and then investing to make it so. That sort of selection and production is what Katzenberg and the rest of Hollywood have been doing for decades, and it’s understandable that Katzenberg thought he could apply the same formula to mobile.Mobile, though, is defined by the Internet, which is to say it is defined by abundance…So it is on TikTok, or any other app with user-generated content. The goal is not to pick out the hits, but rather to attract as much content as possible, and then algorithmically boost whatever turns out to be good.Ping officially shut downtwo years later, to no one’s surprise: everything that makes Apple Apple is a lot closer to what makes Katzenberg Katzenberg than to what makes TikTok TikTok; Apple prides itself on perfection and an editorial eye, not slop-sifting algorithms predicated on nothing more than engagement. And, more importantly, this wasn’t an area where Apple needed to compete: you could simply download Facebook then, or TikTok today, and get all of the user-generated content you wanted on your Apple device. That’s the magic of having a platform: other companies will do the work for you to meet a market need; just give them the APIs they need and get out of their way.The analogy to AI should be obvious: give companies the hooks, and let them make AI-enabled apps. Or, even better, make Siri itself into an API endpoint: what if you could use ChatGPT, or Grok, or Alexa+, or Google? Why does Apple have to do it all, particularly in an arena that it isn’t good at? We still need devices, and still need all sorts of apps beyond AI; there will still be a reason to get an iPhone, and no longer a reason for anyone else to even bother trying to replace it.Yes, I get it, this is a pretty radical proposition; what if AI takes over the world? Well, if that happens, I would argue that Apple is dead anyways. The bigger problem, in my mind, is not strategic, but cultural: Apple simply won’t give up control. Heck, they won’t even give up control of Apple Immersive Video cameras, and let me watch a damn concert in a way that was never previously possible. Honestly, it feels like a miracle that the App Store happened at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.12: How Nvidia Responds to a ThreatDateFriday, March 21, 2025Apple VisionDateTuesday, June 6, 2023The Apple Vision ProDateTuesday, February 6, 2024←2025.11: Alexa Gets an AI MakeoverIntel’s New CEO, Reevaluating Gelsinger, Lip-Bu Tan and Cadence→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Metallica on Vision Pro, Non-Immersive Immersive Video, Ping and AIMonday, March 17, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, John Gruber wrote a must-read article on Daring Fireball entitledSomething Is Rotten in the State of Cupertino, absolutely skewering Apple over the Apple Intelligence fiasco. What Gruber rightly puts his finger on is that the failure here is not that the AI is bad; it’s that Apple gave itself permission to lie not just to its customers but to itself. There were a host of killer lines, including this:However close to financial bankruptcy Apple was when Steve Jobs returned as CEO after the NeXT reunification, the company was already completely bankrupt of credibility. Apple today is the most profitable and financially successful company in the history of the world. Everyone notices such success, and the corresponding accumulation of great wealth. Less noticed, but to my mind the more impressive achievement, is that over the last three decades, the company also accumulated an abundant reserve of credibility. When Apple showed a feature, you could bank on that feature being real. When they said something was set to ship in the coming year, it would ship in the coming year. In the worst case, maybe that “year” would have to be stretched to 13 or 14 months. You can stretch the truth and maintain credibility, but you can’t maintain credibility with bullshit. And the “more personalized Siri” features, it turns out, were bullshit.We also discussed this Article onFriday’s Dithering.On to the Update:Metallica on Vision ProFrom anApple press release:A new Apple Immersive concert experience, Metallica, is coming to Apple Vision Pro this Friday, March 14. Filmed in Mexico City during the sold-out second-year finale of the band’s M72 World Tour, Metallica features full performances of three longtime staples from the band’s stadium-filling live shows — “Whiplash,” “One,” and “Enter Sandman” — and was captured exclusively in Apple Immersive Video. This remarkable storytelling format is only possible on Apple Vision Pro, with ultra-high-resolution 180-degree video and Spatial Audio to give viewers unprecedented access to James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, Kirk Hammett, and Robert Trujillo — from vantage points as close up as the famed Snake Pit, to wide-angle views of the band’s energetic performance in the round…To capture the band’s full performance from multiple perspectives, and the energy of over 65,000 passionate Metallica fans, Apple built a custom stage layout featuring 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.I tried this out over the weekend, and it inspired quite a few thoughts, from the concert, to the Apple Vision Pro, to the current state of Apple.First, before I even got to the concert, I experienced the same feeling I have every time I use the Vision Pro:this is so cool. I’m dead serious: simply unlocking the device with my eyes continues to be a real surprise-and-delight experience; when people ask if Apple is still capable of delivering great experiences, I would honestly point to the Vision Pro, as that feeling continues to extend to much of the interface.The problem, of course, is that putting the headset on feels like a big lift (both literally and figuratively), and then once you get it on it’s not clear what you should do with it. In this case, however, I was looking for this concert…and was disappointed that the Apple TV+ app still doesn’t have a dedicated section for immersive video. Then again, there isn’t that much, so it was easy to find.Non-Immersive Immersive VideoAs for the concert itself, the video was indeed very cool. The opening shot following James Hetfield walking into the stadium was very compelling, and, well, it was immersive. And then you cut to another camera angle, and while that camera angle was also immersive, the video as a whole no longer was.What followed was a very enjoyable 30 minutes or so — I’ll probably watch it again — but it felt like a particularly neat documentary, not like I was at a concert. You had a monologue from each member of the band, you had shots of the crowd, you had three songs, all, as Apple proudly noted in their press release, shot with “14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.” That means the final product was edited together from those 14 cameras and the four interviews, which is to say it was a produced artifact of a live experience; at no point did I feel like I was at the concert.This continues to be a huge disappointment for me and my expectations for the Vision Pro. I wrote inmy first Articleafter the 2023 WWDC introduction of the headset:What was much more compelling were a series of immersive video experiences that Apple did not show in the keynote. The most striking to me were, unsurprisingly, sports. There was one clip of an NBA basketball game that was incredibly realistic: the game clip was shot from the baseline, and as someone who has had the good fortune to sit courtside, it felt exactly the same, and, it must be said, much more immersive than similar experiences on the Quest.It turns out that one reason for the immersion is that Apple actually created its own cameras to capture the game using its new Apple Immersive Video Format. The company was fairly mum about how it planned to make those cameras and its format more widely available, but I am completely serious when I say that I would pay the NBA thousands of dollars to get a season pass to watch games captured in this way. Yes, that’s a crazy statement to make, but courtside seats cost that much or more, and that 10-second clip was shockingly close to the real thing.What is fascinating is that such a season pass should, in my estimation, look very different from a traditional TV broadcast, what with its multiple camera angles, announcers, scoreboard slug, etc. I wouldn’t want any of that: if I want to see the score, I can simply look up at the scoreboard as if I’m in the stadium; the sounds are provided by the crowd and PA announcer. To put it another way, the Apple Immersive Video Format, to a far greater extent than I thought possible, truly makes you feel like you are in a different place.We are nearly two years on from that introduction, and over a year beyond the actual launch of the Vision Pro, and there has yet to be an experience like I envisioned and thought was coming. What is frustrating is that the limiting factor is Apple itself: the company had 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras at this concert, but what I want is only one. I want an Apple Immersive Video camera planted in the audience, and the opportunity to experience the concert as if I were there, without an Apple editor deciding what I get to see and when. Imagine watching the entire concert from here, fully immersed in the Vision Pro:This isn’t the first time I’ve complained about this, either; I wrote inan Update last Aprilabout Apple’s MLS season in review:There are, in a five minute video, 54 distinct shots; that’s an average of one cut every six seconds! Moreover, there wasn’t that much gameplay: only 2 minutes and 32 seconds. Worse, some of the cuts happen in the same highlight — there was one play where there was a sideline view of the ball being passed up the field, and then it switched to a behind-the-goal view for the goal. I actually missed the goal the first time because I was so discombobulated that it took me a few seconds to even figure out where the ball was.In short, this video was created by a team that had zero understanding of the Vision Pro or why sports fans might be so excited about it. I never got the opportunity to feel like I was at one of these games, because the moment I started to feel the atmosphere or some amount of immersion there was another cut (and frankly, the cuts were so fast that I rarely if ever felt anything). This edit may have been perfect for a traditional 2D-video posted on YouTube; the entire point of immersive video on the Vision Pro, though, is that it is an entirely new kind of experience that requires an entirely new approach.Look, I might be totally wrong about this; maybe the only way immersive video is compelling is if it is highly produced like a YouTube video, or, in the case of this concert, like a documentary you might watch on TV. If that’s true, however, then I do question why this device even exists: how much of a market is there really for slightly better and significantly more uncomfortable TV-style video?What is also possible, however, is that Apple is finding itself paralyzed by its need for control. The company can’t just stick a camera at a game and stream the video without any production or play-by-play commentary: what if people are bored? The company can’t just film a concert: what if people are underwhelmed? Instead everything is highly produced and overwrought and slow and scarce, only increasing the pressure on the next release weeks or months later.Here’s one detail I noticed from the concert, by the way: the Apple Immersion Video cameras look like they are getting a lot smaller (you can see two of them in the screen capture above: one is by the drumset, and another is on a stand on the right). If Apple actually did what I suggested, and simply placed a camera in the audience and uploaded the video, how many concerts might be available at this point? Tens? Hundreds? Thousands? Surely enough to justify an immersive video tab in the Apple TV+ app! Would all of these concerts be amazing and worthy of a press release andOfficial Trailer? Almost assuredly not. Would at least a handful be genuinely amazing experiences that would make me feel glad I had a Vision Pro — and perhaps sell a few more models to concert lovers? I think so.Ping and AIHere’s another Apple press release, this timefrom 2010:Apple today announced that in less than 48 hours since its launch on Wednesday, more than one million users have joined Ping, its new social network for music which lets users follow their favorite artists and friends to discover what music they’re talking about, listening to and downloading.“One-third of the people who have downloaded iTunes 10 have joined Ping,“ said Eddy Cue, Apple’s vice president of Internet Services. “As many more people download iTunes 10 in the coming weeks, we expect the Ping community to continue growing.“Ping lets you follow your favorite artists such as Lady Gaga, Coldplay, U2, Jack Johnson, Yo-Yo Ma and more, to see what they’re up to, check out photos and videos they’ve posted, see their tour dates and read comments about other artists and albums they’re listening to. In addition, you can post your thoughts and opinions, your favorite albums and songs, the music you’ve downloaded from iTunes and the concerts you plan to attend.Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.Ping is an old standby when it comes to making jokes about past Apple failures, but that last paragraph — press release boilerplate, obviously — actually helps explain why Ping never had a chance. When you think of Apple you think about their jewel-like devices, about the integration of hardware and software, Jony Ive in a white room, etc. Indeed, you think about the magic of putting on the Apple Vision Pro and having your eyes seamlessly tracked as you touch your fingers together to enter your passcode.All of this is basically the exact opposite of the reality of social media and user-generated content. I wrote the following about Quibi’s failurein 2020:The single most important fact about both movies and television is that they were defined by scarcity: there were only so many movies that would ever be made to fill only so many theater slots, and in the case of TV, there were only 24 hours in a day. That meant that there was significant value in being someone who could figure out what was going to be a hit before it was ever created, and then investing to make it so. That sort of selection and production is what Katzenberg and the rest of Hollywood have been doing for decades, and it’s understandable that Katzenberg thought he could apply the same formula to mobile.Mobile, though, is defined by the Internet, which is to say it is defined by abundance…So it is on TikTok, or any other app with user-generated content. The goal is not to pick out the hits, but rather to attract as much content as possible, and then algorithmically boost whatever turns out to be good.Ping officially shut downtwo years later, to no one’s surprise: everything that makes Apple Apple is a lot closer to what makes Katzenberg Katzenberg than to what makes TikTok TikTok; Apple prides itself on perfection and an editorial eye, not slop-sifting algorithms predicated on nothing more than engagement. And, more importantly, this wasn’t an area where Apple needed to compete: you could simply download Facebook then, or TikTok today, and get all of the user-generated content you wanted on your Apple device. That’s the magic of having a platform: other companies will do the work for you to meet a market need; just give them the APIs they need and get out of their way.The analogy to AI should be obvious: give companies the hooks, and let them make AI-enabled apps. Or, even better, make Siri itself into an API endpoint: what if you could use ChatGPT, or Grok, or Alexa+, or Google? Why does Apple have to do it all, particularly in an arena that it isn’t good at? We still need devices, and still need all sorts of apps beyond AI; there will still be a reason to get an iPhone, and no longer a reason for anyone else to even bother trying to replace it.Yes, I get it, this is a pretty radical proposition; what if AI takes over the world? Well, if that happens, I would argue that Apple is dead anyways. The bigger problem, in my mind, is not strategic, but cultural: Apple simply won’t give up control. Heck, they won’t even give up control of Apple Immersive Video cameras, and let me watch a damn concert in a way that was never previously possible. Honestly, it feels like a miracle that the App Store happened at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.12: How Nvidia Responds to a ThreatDateFriday, March 21, 2025Apple VisionDateTuesday, June 6, 2023The Apple Vision ProDateTuesday, February 6, 2024←2025.11: Alexa Gets an AI MakeoverIntel’s New CEO, Reevaluating Gelsinger, Lip-Bu Tan and Cadence→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Metallica on Vision Pro, Non-Immersive Immersive Video, Ping and AIMonday, March 17, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, John Gruber wrote a must-read article on Daring Fireball entitledSomething Is Rotten in the State of Cupertino, absolutely skewering Apple over the Apple Intelligence fiasco. What Gruber rightly puts his finger on is that the failure here is not that the AI is bad; it’s that Apple gave itself permission to lie not just to its customers but to itself. There were a host of killer lines, including this:However close to financial bankruptcy Apple was when Steve Jobs returned as CEO after the NeXT reunification, the company was already completely bankrupt of credibility. Apple today is the most profitable and financially successful company in the history of the world. Everyone notices such success, and the corresponding accumulation of great wealth. Less noticed, but to my mind the more impressive achievement, is that over the last three decades, the company also accumulated an abundant reserve of credibility. When Apple showed a feature, you could bank on that feature being real. When they said something was set to ship in the coming year, it would ship in the coming year. In the worst case, maybe that “year” would have to be stretched to 13 or 14 months. You can stretch the truth and maintain credibility, but you can’t maintain credibility with bullshit. And the “more personalized Siri” features, it turns out, were bullshit.We also discussed this Article onFriday’s Dithering.On to the Update:Metallica on Vision ProFrom anApple press release:A new Apple Immersive concert experience, Metallica, is coming to Apple Vision Pro this Friday, March 14. Filmed in Mexico City during the sold-out second-year finale of the band’s M72 World Tour, Metallica features full performances of three longtime staples from the band’s stadium-filling live shows — “Whiplash,” “One,” and “Enter Sandman” — and was captured exclusively in Apple Immersive Video. This remarkable storytelling format is only possible on Apple Vision Pro, with ultra-high-resolution 180-degree video and Spatial Audio to give viewers unprecedented access to James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, Kirk Hammett, and Robert Trujillo — from vantage points as close up as the famed Snake Pit, to wide-angle views of the band’s energetic performance in the round…To capture the band’s full performance from multiple perspectives, and the energy of over 65,000 passionate Metallica fans, Apple built a custom stage layout featuring 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.I tried this out over the weekend, and it inspired quite a few thoughts, from the concert, to the Apple Vision Pro, to the current state of Apple.First, before I even got to the concert, I experienced the same feeling I have every time I use the Vision Pro:this is so cool. I’m dead serious: simply unlocking the device with my eyes continues to be a real surprise-and-delight experience; when people ask if Apple is still capable of delivering great experiences, I would honestly point to the Vision Pro, as that feeling continues to extend to much of the interface.The problem, of course, is that putting the headset on feels like a big lift (both literally and figuratively), and then once you get it on it’s not clear what you should do with it. In this case, however, I was looking for this concert…and was disappointed that the Apple TV+ app still doesn’t have a dedicated section for immersive video. Then again, there isn’t that much, so it was easy to find.Non-Immersive Immersive VideoAs for the concert itself, the video was indeed very cool. The opening shot following James Hetfield walking into the stadium was very compelling, and, well, it was immersive. And then you cut to another camera angle, and while that camera angle was also immersive, the video as a whole no longer was.What followed was a very enjoyable 30 minutes or so — I’ll probably watch it again — but it felt like a particularly neat documentary, not like I was at a concert. You had a monologue from each member of the band, you had shots of the crowd, you had three songs, all, as Apple proudly noted in their press release, shot with “14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.” That means the final product was edited together from those 14 cameras and the four interviews, which is to say it was a produced artifact of a live experience; at no point did I feel like I was at the concert.This continues to be a huge disappointment for me and my expectations for the Vision Pro. I wrote inmy first Articleafter the 2023 WWDC introduction of the headset:What was much more compelling were a series of immersive video experiences that Apple did not show in the keynote. The most striking to me were, unsurprisingly, sports. There was one clip of an NBA basketball game that was incredibly realistic: the game clip was shot from the baseline, and as someone who has had the good fortune to sit courtside, it felt exactly the same, and, it must be said, much more immersive than similar experiences on the Quest.It turns out that one reason for the immersion is that Apple actually created its own cameras to capture the game using its new Apple Immersive Video Format. The company was fairly mum about how it planned to make those cameras and its format more widely available, but I am completely serious when I say that I would pay the NBA thousands of dollars to get a season pass to watch games captured in this way. Yes, that’s a crazy statement to make, but courtside seats cost that much or more, and that 10-second clip was shockingly close to the real thing.What is fascinating is that such a season pass should, in my estimation, look very different from a traditional TV broadcast, what with its multiple camera angles, announcers, scoreboard slug, etc. I wouldn’t want any of that: if I want to see the score, I can simply look up at the scoreboard as if I’m in the stadium; the sounds are provided by the crowd and PA announcer. To put it another way, the Apple Immersive Video Format, to a far greater extent than I thought possible, truly makes you feel like you are in a different place.We are nearly two years on from that introduction, and over a year beyond the actual launch of the Vision Pro, and there has yet to be an experience like I envisioned and thought was coming. What is frustrating is that the limiting factor is Apple itself: the company had 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras at this concert, but what I want is only one. I want an Apple Immersive Video camera planted in the audience, and the opportunity to experience the concert as if I were there, without an Apple editor deciding what I get to see and when. Imagine watching the entire concert from here, fully immersed in the Vision Pro:This isn’t the first time I’ve complained about this, either; I wrote inan Update last Aprilabout Apple’s MLS season in review:There are, in a five minute video, 54 distinct shots; that’s an average of one cut every six seconds! Moreover, there wasn’t that much gameplay: only 2 minutes and 32 seconds. Worse, some of the cuts happen in the same highlight — there was one play where there was a sideline view of the ball being passed up the field, and then it switched to a behind-the-goal view for the goal. I actually missed the goal the first time because I was so discombobulated that it took me a few seconds to even figure out where the ball was.In short, this video was created by a team that had zero understanding of the Vision Pro or why sports fans might be so excited about it. I never got the opportunity to feel like I was at one of these games, because the moment I started to feel the atmosphere or some amount of immersion there was another cut (and frankly, the cuts were so fast that I rarely if ever felt anything). This edit may have been perfect for a traditional 2D-video posted on YouTube; the entire point of immersive video on the Vision Pro, though, is that it is an entirely new kind of experience that requires an entirely new approach.Look, I might be totally wrong about this; maybe the only way immersive video is compelling is if it is highly produced like a YouTube video, or, in the case of this concert, like a documentary you might watch on TV. If that’s true, however, then I do question why this device even exists: how much of a market is there really for slightly better and significantly more uncomfortable TV-style video?What is also possible, however, is that Apple is finding itself paralyzed by its need for control. The company can’t just stick a camera at a game and stream the video without any production or play-by-play commentary: what if people are bored? The company can’t just film a concert: what if people are underwhelmed? Instead everything is highly produced and overwrought and slow and scarce, only increasing the pressure on the next release weeks or months later.Here’s one detail I noticed from the concert, by the way: the Apple Immersion Video cameras look like they are getting a lot smaller (you can see two of them in the screen capture above: one is by the drumset, and another is on a stand on the right). If Apple actually did what I suggested, and simply placed a camera in the audience and uploaded the video, how many concerts might be available at this point? Tens? Hundreds? Thousands? Surely enough to justify an immersive video tab in the Apple TV+ app! Would all of these concerts be amazing and worthy of a press release andOfficial Trailer? Almost assuredly not. Would at least a handful be genuinely amazing experiences that would make me feel glad I had a Vision Pro — and perhaps sell a few more models to concert lovers? I think so.Ping and AIHere’s another Apple press release, this timefrom 2010:Apple today announced that in less than 48 hours since its launch on Wednesday, more than one million users have joined Ping, its new social network for music which lets users follow their favorite artists and friends to discover what music they’re talking about, listening to and downloading.“One-third of the people who have downloaded iTunes 10 have joined Ping,“ said Eddy Cue, Apple’s vice president of Internet Services. “As many more people download iTunes 10 in the coming weeks, we expect the Ping community to continue growing.“Ping lets you follow your favorite artists such as Lady Gaga, Coldplay, U2, Jack Johnson, Yo-Yo Ma and more, to see what they’re up to, check out photos and videos they’ve posted, see their tour dates and read comments about other artists and albums they’re listening to. In addition, you can post your thoughts and opinions, your favorite albums and songs, the music you’ve downloaded from iTunes and the concerts you plan to attend.Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.Ping is an old standby when it comes to making jokes about past Apple failures, but that last paragraph — press release boilerplate, obviously — actually helps explain why Ping never had a chance. When you think of Apple you think about their jewel-like devices, about the integration of hardware and software, Jony Ive in a white room, etc. Indeed, you think about the magic of putting on the Apple Vision Pro and having your eyes seamlessly tracked as you touch your fingers together to enter your passcode.All of this is basically the exact opposite of the reality of social media and user-generated content. I wrote the following about Quibi’s failurein 2020:The single most important fact about both movies and television is that they were defined by scarcity: there were only so many movies that would ever be made to fill only so many theater slots, and in the case of TV, there were only 24 hours in a day. That meant that there was significant value in being someone who could figure out what was going to be a hit before it was ever created, and then investing to make it so. That sort of selection and production is what Katzenberg and the rest of Hollywood have been doing for decades, and it’s understandable that Katzenberg thought he could apply the same formula to mobile.Mobile, though, is defined by the Internet, which is to say it is defined by abundance…So it is on TikTok, or any other app with user-generated content. The goal is not to pick out the hits, but rather to attract as much content as possible, and then algorithmically boost whatever turns out to be good.Ping officially shut downtwo years later, to no one’s surprise: everything that makes Apple Apple is a lot closer to what makes Katzenberg Katzenberg than to what makes TikTok TikTok; Apple prides itself on perfection and an editorial eye, not slop-sifting algorithms predicated on nothing more than engagement. And, more importantly, this wasn’t an area where Apple needed to compete: you could simply download Facebook then, or TikTok today, and get all of the user-generated content you wanted on your Apple device. That’s the magic of having a platform: other companies will do the work for you to meet a market need; just give them the APIs they need and get out of their way.The analogy to AI should be obvious: give companies the hooks, and let them make AI-enabled apps. Or, even better, make Siri itself into an API endpoint: what if you could use ChatGPT, or Grok, or Alexa+, or Google? Why does Apple have to do it all, particularly in an arena that it isn’t good at? We still need devices, and still need all sorts of apps beyond AI; there will still be a reason to get an iPhone, and no longer a reason for anyone else to even bother trying to replace it.Yes, I get it, this is a pretty radical proposition; what if AI takes over the world? Well, if that happens, I would argue that Apple is dead anyways. The bigger problem, in my mind, is not strategic, but cultural: Apple simply won’t give up control. Heck, they won’t even give up control of Apple Immersive Video cameras, and let me watch a damn concert in a way that was never previously possible. Honestly, it feels like a miracle that the App Store happened at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.12: How Nvidia Responds to a ThreatDateFriday, March 21, 2025Apple VisionDateTuesday, June 6, 2023The Apple Vision ProDateTuesday, February 6, 2024←2025.11: Alexa Gets an AI MakeoverIntel’s New CEO, Reevaluating Gelsinger, Lip-Bu Tan and Cadence→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, John Gruber wrote a must-read article on Daring Fireball entitledSomething Is Rotten in the State of Cupertino, absolutely skewering Apple over the Apple Intelligence fiasco. What Gruber rightly puts his finger on is that the failure here is not that the AI is bad; it’s that Apple gave itself permission to lie not just to its customers but to itself. There were a host of killer lines, including this:However close to financial bankruptcy Apple was when Steve Jobs returned as CEO after the NeXT reunification, the company was already completely bankrupt of credibility. Apple today is the most profitable and financially successful company in the history of the world. Everyone notices such success, and the corresponding accumulation of great wealth. Less noticed, but to my mind the more impressive achievement, is that over the last three decades, the company also accumulated an abundant reserve of credibility. When Apple showed a feature, you could bank on that feature being real. When they said something was set to ship in the coming year, it would ship in the coming year. In the worst case, maybe that “year” would have to be stretched to 13 or 14 months. You can stretch the truth and maintain credibility, but you can’t maintain credibility with bullshit. And the “more personalized Siri” features, it turns out, were bullshit.We also discussed this Article onFriday’s Dithering.On to the Update:Metallica on Vision ProFrom anApple press release:A new Apple Immersive concert experience, Metallica, is coming to Apple Vision Pro this Friday, March 14. Filmed in Mexico City during the sold-out second-year finale of the band’s M72 World Tour, Metallica features full performances of three longtime staples from the band’s stadium-filling live shows — “Whiplash,” “One,” and “Enter Sandman” — and was captured exclusively in Apple Immersive Video. This remarkable storytelling format is only possible on Apple Vision Pro, with ultra-high-resolution 180-degree video and Spatial Audio to give viewers unprecedented access to James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, Kirk Hammett, and Robert Trujillo — from vantage points as close up as the famed Snake Pit, to wide-angle views of the band’s energetic performance in the round…To capture the band’s full performance from multiple perspectives, and the energy of over 65,000 passionate Metallica fans, Apple built a custom stage layout featuring 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.I tried this out over the weekend, and it inspired quite a few thoughts, from the concert, to the Apple Vision Pro, to the current state of Apple.First, before I even got to the concert, I experienced the same feeling I have every time I use the Vision Pro:this is so cool. I’m dead serious: simply unlocking the device with my eyes continues to be a real surprise-and-delight experience; when people ask if Apple is still capable of delivering great experiences, I would honestly point to the Vision Pro, as that feeling continues to extend to much of the interface.The problem, of course, is that putting the headset on feels like a big lift (both literally and figuratively), and then once you get it on it’s not clear what you should do with it. In this case, however, I was looking for this concert…and was disappointed that the Apple TV+ app still doesn’t have a dedicated section for immersive video. Then again, there isn’t that much, so it was easy to find.Non-Immersive Immersive VideoAs for the concert itself, the video was indeed very cool. The opening shot following James Hetfield walking into the stadium was very compelling, and, well, it was immersive. And then you cut to another camera angle, and while that camera angle was also immersive, the video as a whole no longer was.What followed was a very enjoyable 30 minutes or so — I’ll probably watch it again — but it felt like a particularly neat documentary, not like I was at a concert. You had a monologue from each member of the band, you had shots of the crowd, you had three songs, all, as Apple proudly noted in their press release, shot with “14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.” That means the final product was edited together from those 14 cameras and the four interviews, which is to say it was a produced artifact of a live experience; at no point did I feel like I was at the concert.This continues to be a huge disappointment for me and my expectations for the Vision Pro. I wrote inmy first Articleafter the 2023 WWDC introduction of the headset:What was much more compelling were a series of immersive video experiences that Apple did not show in the keynote. The most striking to me were, unsurprisingly, sports. There was one clip of an NBA basketball game that was incredibly realistic: the game clip was shot from the baseline, and as someone who has had the good fortune to sit courtside, it felt exactly the same, and, it must be said, much more immersive than similar experiences on the Quest.It turns out that one reason for the immersion is that Apple actually created its own cameras to capture the game using its new Apple Immersive Video Format. The company was fairly mum about how it planned to make those cameras and its format more widely available, but I am completely serious when I say that I would pay the NBA thousands of dollars to get a season pass to watch games captured in this way. Yes, that’s a crazy statement to make, but courtside seats cost that much or more, and that 10-second clip was shockingly close to the real thing.What is fascinating is that such a season pass should, in my estimation, look very different from a traditional TV broadcast, what with its multiple camera angles, announcers, scoreboard slug, etc. I wouldn’t want any of that: if I want to see the score, I can simply look up at the scoreboard as if I’m in the stadium; the sounds are provided by the crowd and PA announcer. To put it another way, the Apple Immersive Video Format, to a far greater extent than I thought possible, truly makes you feel like you are in a different place.We are nearly two years on from that introduction, and over a year beyond the actual launch of the Vision Pro, and there has yet to be an experience like I envisioned and thought was coming. What is frustrating is that the limiting factor is Apple itself: the company had 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras at this concert, but what I want is only one. I want an Apple Immersive Video camera planted in the audience, and the opportunity to experience the concert as if I were there, without an Apple editor deciding what I get to see and when. Imagine watching the entire concert from here, fully immersed in the Vision Pro:This isn’t the first time I’ve complained about this, either; I wrote inan Update last Aprilabout Apple’s MLS season in review:There are, in a five minute video, 54 distinct shots; that’s an average of one cut every six seconds! Moreover, there wasn’t that much gameplay: only 2 minutes and 32 seconds. Worse, some of the cuts happen in the same highlight — there was one play where there was a sideline view of the ball being passed up the field, and then it switched to a behind-the-goal view for the goal. I actually missed the goal the first time because I was so discombobulated that it took me a few seconds to even figure out where the ball was.In short, this video was created by a team that had zero understanding of the Vision Pro or why sports fans might be so excited about it. I never got the opportunity to feel like I was at one of these games, because the moment I started to feel the atmosphere or some amount of immersion there was another cut (and frankly, the cuts were so fast that I rarely if ever felt anything). This edit may have been perfect for a traditional 2D-video posted on YouTube; the entire point of immersive video on the Vision Pro, though, is that it is an entirely new kind of experience that requires an entirely new approach.Look, I might be totally wrong about this; maybe the only way immersive video is compelling is if it is highly produced like a YouTube video, or, in the case of this concert, like a documentary you might watch on TV. If that’s true, however, then I do question why this device even exists: how much of a market is there really for slightly better and significantly more uncomfortable TV-style video?What is also possible, however, is that Apple is finding itself paralyzed by its need for control. The company can’t just stick a camera at a game and stream the video without any production or play-by-play commentary: what if people are bored? The company can’t just film a concert: what if people are underwhelmed? Instead everything is highly produced and overwrought and slow and scarce, only increasing the pressure on the next release weeks or months later.Here’s one detail I noticed from the concert, by the way: the Apple Immersion Video cameras look like they are getting a lot smaller (you can see two of them in the screen capture above: one is by the drumset, and another is on a stand on the right). If Apple actually did what I suggested, and simply placed a camera in the audience and uploaded the video, how many concerts might be available at this point? Tens? Hundreds? Thousands? Surely enough to justify an immersive video tab in the Apple TV+ app! Would all of these concerts be amazing and worthy of a press release andOfficial Trailer? Almost assuredly not. Would at least a handful be genuinely amazing experiences that would make me feel glad I had a Vision Pro — and perhaps sell a few more models to concert lovers? I think so.Ping and AIHere’s another Apple press release, this timefrom 2010:Apple today announced that in less than 48 hours since its launch on Wednesday, more than one million users have joined Ping, its new social network for music which lets users follow their favorite artists and friends to discover what music they’re talking about, listening to and downloading.“One-third of the people who have downloaded iTunes 10 have joined Ping,“ said Eddy Cue, Apple’s vice president of Internet Services. “As many more people download iTunes 10 in the coming weeks, we expect the Ping community to continue growing.“Ping lets you follow your favorite artists such as Lady Gaga, Coldplay, U2, Jack Johnson, Yo-Yo Ma and more, to see what they’re up to, check out photos and videos they’ve posted, see their tour dates and read comments about other artists and albums they’re listening to. In addition, you can post your thoughts and opinions, your favorite albums and songs, the music you’ve downloaded from iTunes and the concerts you plan to attend.Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.Ping is an old standby when it comes to making jokes about past Apple failures, but that last paragraph — press release boilerplate, obviously — actually helps explain why Ping never had a chance. When you think of Apple you think about their jewel-like devices, about the integration of hardware and software, Jony Ive in a white room, etc. Indeed, you think about the magic of putting on the Apple Vision Pro and having your eyes seamlessly tracked as you touch your fingers together to enter your passcode.All of this is basically the exact opposite of the reality of social media and user-generated content. I wrote the following about Quibi’s failurein 2020:The single most important fact about both movies and television is that they were defined by scarcity: there were only so many movies that would ever be made to fill only so many theater slots, and in the case of TV, there were only 24 hours in a day. That meant that there was significant value in being someone who could figure out what was going to be a hit before it was ever created, and then investing to make it so. That sort of selection and production is what Katzenberg and the rest of Hollywood have been doing for decades, and it’s understandable that Katzenberg thought he could apply the same formula to mobile.Mobile, though, is defined by the Internet, which is to say it is defined by abundance…So it is on TikTok, or any other app with user-generated content. The goal is not to pick out the hits, but rather to attract as much content as possible, and then algorithmically boost whatever turns out to be good.Ping officially shut downtwo years later, to no one’s surprise: everything that makes Apple Apple is a lot closer to what makes Katzenberg Katzenberg than to what makes TikTok TikTok; Apple prides itself on perfection and an editorial eye, not slop-sifting algorithms predicated on nothing more than engagement. And, more importantly, this wasn’t an area where Apple needed to compete: you could simply download Facebook then, or TikTok today, and get all of the user-generated content you wanted on your Apple device. That’s the magic of having a platform: other companies will do the work for you to meet a market need; just give them the APIs they need and get out of their way.The analogy to AI should be obvious: give companies the hooks, and let them make AI-enabled apps. Or, even better, make Siri itself into an API endpoint: what if you could use ChatGPT, or Grok, or Alexa+, or Google? Why does Apple have to do it all, particularly in an arena that it isn’t good at? We still need devices, and still need all sorts of apps beyond AI; there will still be a reason to get an iPhone, and no longer a reason for anyone else to even bother trying to replace it.Yes, I get it, this is a pretty radical proposition; what if AI takes over the world? Well, if that happens, I would argue that Apple is dead anyways. The bigger problem, in my mind, is not strategic, but cultural: Apple simply won’t give up control. Heck, they won’t even give up control of Apple Immersive Video cameras, and let me watch a damn concert in a way that was never previously possible. Honestly, it feels like a miracle that the App Store happened at all.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email In case you missed it, John Gruber wrote a must-read article on Daring Fireball entitledSomething Is Rotten in the State of Cupertino, absolutely skewering Apple over the Apple Intelligence fiasco. What Gruber rightly puts his finger on is that the failure here is not that the AI is bad; it’s that Apple gave itself permission to lie not just to its customers but to itself. There were a host of killer lines, including this: However close to financial bankruptcy Apple was when Steve Jobs returned as CEO after the NeXT reunification, the company was already completely bankrupt of credibility. Apple today is the most profitable and financially successful company in the history of the world. Everyone notices such success, and the corresponding accumulation of great wealth. Less noticed, but to my mind the more impressive achievement, is that over the last three decades, the company also accumulated an abundant reserve of credibility. When Apple showed a feature, you could bank on that feature being real. When they said something was set to ship in the coming year, it would ship in the coming year. In the worst case, maybe that “year” would have to be stretched to 13 or 14 months. You can stretch the truth and maintain credibility, but you can’t maintain credibility with bullshit. And the “more personalized Siri” features, it turns out, were bullshit. A new Apple Immersive concert experience, Metallica, is coming to Apple Vision Pro this Friday, March 14. Filmed in Mexico City during the sold-out second-year finale of the band’s M72 World Tour, Metallica features full performances of three longtime staples from the band’s stadium-filling live shows — “Whiplash,” “One,” and “Enter Sandman” — and was captured exclusively in Apple Immersive Video. This remarkable storytelling format is only possible on Apple Vision Pro, with ultra-high-resolution 180-degree video and Spatial Audio to give viewers unprecedented access to James Hetfield, Lars Ulrich, Kirk Hammett, and Robert Trujillo — from vantage points as close up as the famed Snake Pit, to wide-angle views of the band’s energetic performance in the round… To capture the band’s full performance from multiple perspectives, and the energy of over 65,000 passionate Metallica fans, Apple built a custom stage layout featuring 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage. First, before I even got to the concert, I experienced the same feeling I have every time I use the Vision Pro:this is so cool. I’m dead serious: simply unlocking the device with my eyes continues to be a real surprise-and-delight experience; when people ask if Apple is still capable of delivering great experiences, I would honestly point to the Vision Pro, as that feeling continues to extend to much of the interface. The problem, of course, is that putting the headset on feels like a big lift (both literally and figuratively), and then once you get it on it’s not clear what you should do with it. In this case, however, I was looking for this concert…and was disappointed that the Apple TV+ app still doesn’t have a dedicated section for immersive video. Then again, there isn’t that much, so it was easy to find. As for the concert itself, the video was indeed very cool. The opening shot following James Hetfield walking into the stadium was very compelling, and, well, it was immersive. And then you cut to another camera angle, and while that camera angle was also immersive, the video as a whole no longer was. What followed was a very enjoyable 30 minutes or so — I’ll probably watch it again — but it felt like a particularly neat documentary, not like I was at a concert. You had a monologue from each member of the band, you had shots of the crowd, you had three songs, all, as Apple proudly noted in their press release, shot with “14 Apple Immersive Video cameras using a mix of stabilized cameras, cable-suspended cameras, and remote-controlled camera dolly systems that moved around the stage.” That means the final product was edited together from those 14 cameras and the four interviews, which is to say it was a produced artifact of a live experience; at no point did I feel like I was at the concert. What was much more compelling were a series of immersive video experiences that Apple did not show in the keynote. The most striking to me were, unsurprisingly, sports. There was one clip of an NBA basketball game that was incredibly realistic: the game clip was shot from the baseline, and as someone who has had the good fortune to sit courtside, it felt exactly the same, and, it must be said, much more immersive than similar experiences on the Quest. It turns out that one reason for the immersion is that Apple actually created its own cameras to capture the game using its new Apple Immersive Video Format. The company was fairly mum about how it planned to make those cameras and its format more widely available, but I am completely serious when I say that I would pay the NBA thousands of dollars to get a season pass to watch games captured in this way. Yes, that’s a crazy statement to make, but courtside seats cost that much or more, and that 10-second clip was shockingly close to the real thing. What is fascinating is that such a season pass should, in my estimation, look very different from a traditional TV broadcast, what with its multiple camera angles, announcers, scoreboard slug, etc. I wouldn’t want any of that: if I want to see the score, I can simply look up at the scoreboard as if I’m in the stadium; the sounds are provided by the crowd and PA announcer. To put it another way, the Apple Immersive Video Format, to a far greater extent than I thought possible, truly makes you feel like you are in a different place. We are nearly two years on from that introduction, and over a year beyond the actual launch of the Vision Pro, and there has yet to be an experience like I envisioned and thought was coming. What is frustrating is that the limiting factor is Apple itself: the company had 14 Apple Immersive Video cameras at this concert, but what I want is only one. I want an Apple Immersive Video camera planted in the audience, and the opportunity to experience the concert as if I were there, without an Apple editor deciding what I get to see and when. Imagine watching the entire concert from here, fully immersed in the Vision Pro: There are, in a five minute video, 54 distinct shots; that’s an average of one cut every six seconds! Moreover, there wasn’t that much gameplay: only 2 minutes and 32 seconds. Worse, some of the cuts happen in the same highlight — there was one play where there was a sideline view of the ball being passed up the field, and then it switched to a behind-the-goal view for the goal. I actually missed the goal the first time because I was so discombobulated that it took me a few seconds to even figure out where the ball was. In short, this video was created by a team that had zero understanding of the Vision Pro or why sports fans might be so excited about it. I never got the opportunity to feel like I was at one of these games, because the moment I started to feel the atmosphere or some amount of immersion there was another cut (and frankly, the cuts were so fast that I rarely if ever felt anything). This edit may have been perfect for a traditional 2D-video posted on YouTube; the entire point of immersive video on the Vision Pro, though, is that it is an entirely new kind of experience that requires an entirely new approach. Look, I might be totally wrong about this; maybe the only way immersive video is compelling is if it is highly produced like a YouTube video, or, in the case of this concert, like a documentary you might watch on TV. If that’s true, however, then I do question why this device even exists: how much of a market is there really for slightly better and significantly more uncomfortable TV-style video? What is also possible, however, is that Apple is finding itself paralyzed by its need for control. The company can’t just stick a camera at a game and stream the video without any production or play-by-play commentary: what if people are bored? The company can’t just film a concert: what if people are underwhelmed? Instead everything is highly produced and overwrought and slow and scarce, only increasing the pressure on the next release weeks or months later. Here’s one detail I noticed from the concert, by the way: the Apple Immersion Video cameras look like they are getting a lot smaller (you can see two of them in the screen capture above: one is by the drumset, and another is on a stand on the right). If Apple actually did what I suggested, and simply placed a camera in the audience and uploaded the video, how many concerts might be available at this point? Tens? Hundreds? Thousands? Surely enough to justify an immersive video tab in the Apple TV+ app! Would all of these concerts be amazing and worthy of a press release andOfficial Trailer? Almost assuredly not. Would at least a handful be genuinely amazing experiences that would make me feel glad I had a Vision Pro — and perhaps sell a few more models to concert lovers? I think so. Apple today announced that in less than 48 hours since its launch on Wednesday, more than one million users have joined Ping, its new social network for music which lets users follow their favorite artists and friends to discover what music they’re talking about, listening to and downloading. “One-third of the people who have downloaded iTunes 10 have joined Ping,“ said Eddy Cue, Apple’s vice president of Internet Services. “As many more people download iTunes 10 in the coming weeks, we expect the Ping community to continue growing.“ Ping lets you follow your favorite artists such as Lady Gaga, Coldplay, U2, Jack Johnson, Yo-Yo Ma and more, to see what they’re up to, check out photos and videos they’ve posted, see their tour dates and read comments about other artists and albums they’re listening to. In addition, you can post your thoughts and opinions, your favorite albums and songs, the music you’ve downloaded from iTunes and the concerts you plan to attend. Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices. Ping is an old standby when it comes to making jokes about past Apple failures, but that last paragraph — press release boilerplate, obviously — actually helps explain why Ping never had a chance. When you think of Apple you think about their jewel-like devices, about the integration of hardware and software, Jony Ive in a white room, etc. Indeed, you think about the magic of putting on the Apple Vision Pro and having your eyes seamlessly tracked as you touch your fingers together to enter your passcode. The single most important fact about both movies and television is that they were defined by scarcity: there were only so many movies that would ever be made to fill only so many theater slots, and in the case of TV, there were only 24 hours in a day. That meant that there was significant value in being someone who could figure out what was going to be a hit before it was ever created, and then investing to make it so. That sort of selection and production is what Katzenberg and the rest of Hollywood have been doing for decades, and it’s understandable that Katzenberg thought he could apply the same formula to mobile. Mobile, though, is defined by the Internet, which is to say it is defined by abundance…So it is on TikTok, or any other app with user-generated content. The goal is not to pick out the hits, but rather to attract as much content as possible, and then algorithmically boost whatever turns out to be good. Ping officially shut downtwo years later, to no one’s surprise: everything that makes Apple Apple is a lot closer to what makes Katzenberg Katzenberg than to what makes TikTok TikTok; Apple prides itself on perfection and an editorial eye, not slop-sifting algorithms predicated on nothing more than engagement. And, more importantly, this wasn’t an area where Apple needed to compete: you could simply download Facebook then, or TikTok today, and get all of the user-generated content you wanted on your Apple device. That’s the magic of having a platform: other companies will do the work for you to meet a market need; just give them the APIs they need and get out of their way. The analogy to AI should be obvious: give companies the hooks, and let them make AI-enabled apps. Or, even better, make Siri itself into an API endpoint: what if you could use ChatGPT, or Grok, or Alexa+, or Google? Why does Apple have to do it all, particularly in an arena that it isn’t good at? We still need devices, and still need all sorts of apps beyond AI; there will still be a reason to get an iPhone, and no longer a reason for anyone else to even bother trying to replace it. Yes, I get it, this is a pretty radical proposition; what if AI takes over the world? Well, if that happens, I would argue that Apple is dead anyways. The bigger problem, in my mind, is not strategic, but cultural: Apple simply won’t give up control. Heck, they won’t even give up control of Apple Immersive Video cameras, and let me watch a damn concert in a way that was never previously possible. Honestly, it feels like a miracle that the App Store happened at all. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025