# [PODCAST] What's up with all the ads for law firms?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/10/04/1203595460/lawyers-ads-law-groups-commercials-banned
**Atlas ID**: 229462
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.840900

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How did ads for lawyers go from nonexistent to everywhere in the US? : Planet MoneyThe lawyer commercial is almost an art form unto itself. Learned practitioners of the law doing whatever it takes to get your attention, from impressivedirt bike stuntsto running aroundhalf naked. All so when you land in trouble, you don't have to think hard to remember their name. Odds are you can name one or two right now.This world of law ads did not exist fifty years ago. Then, lawyers were not allowed to advertise. Not by law, by the exclusive organization that decides who gets to be a lawyer: state bars.On today's episode, how that changed. How a couple of lawyers placing an ad in a local newspaper led to the inescapable world of law firm ads we know today. And, how the right to advertise got put on the same level as some of the most important, fundamental rights we have.This episode was hosted by Nick Fountain and Jeff Guo. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Sean Saldana. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWhat's up with all the ads for law firms?October 4, 20245:25 PM ETByNick Fountain,Jeff Guo,Jess Jiang,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerWhat's up with all the ads for law firms?Listen·18:5418:54TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1203595460/1259895994" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageThese days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide captiontoggle captionJungle Law GroupThese days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law GroupThe lawyer commercial is almost an art form unto itself. Learned practitioners of the law doing whatever it takes to get your attention, from impressivedirt bike stuntsto running aroundhalf naked. All so when you land in trouble, you don't have to think hard to remember their name. Odds are you can name one or two right now.This world of law ads did not exist fifty years ago. Then, lawyers were not allowed to advertise. Not by law, by the exclusive organization that decides who gets to be a lawyer: state bars.Sponsor MessageOn today's episode, how that changed. How a couple of lawyers placing an ad in a local newspaper led to the inescapable world of law firm ads we know today. And, how the right to advertise got put on the same level as some of the most important, fundamental rights we have.Planet MoneyThe real estate industry on trialThis episode was hosted by Nick Fountain and Jeff Guo. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Sean Saldana. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Time to Spare," "Old Route New Wheels," and "Big Howling Dog"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor What's up with all the ads for law firms?Listen·18:5418:54TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1203595460/1259895994" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript What's up with all the ads for law firms?Listen·18:5418:54TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1203595460/1259895994" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1203595460/1259895994" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageThese days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide captiontoggle captionJungle Law GroupThese days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law GroupThe lawyer commercial is almost an art form unto itself. Learned practitioners of the law doing whatever it takes to get your attention, from impressivedirt bike stuntsto running aroundhalf naked. All so when you land in trouble, you don't have to think hard to remember their name. Odds are you can name one or two right now.This world of law ads did not exist fifty years ago. Then, lawyers were not allowed to advertise. Not by law, by the exclusive organization that decides who gets to be a lawyer: state bars.Sponsor MessageOn today's episode, how that changed. How a couple of lawyers placing an ad in a local newspaper led to the inescapable world of law firm ads we know today. And, how the right to advertise got put on the same level as some of the most important, fundamental rights we have.Planet MoneyThe real estate industry on trialThis episode was hosted by Nick Fountain and Jeff Guo. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Sean Saldana. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Time to Spare," "Old Route New Wheels," and "Big Howling Dog" Enlarge this imageThese days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide captiontoggle captionJungle Law GroupThese days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Group These days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide captiontoggle captionJungle Law Group These days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide captiontoggle caption These days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide caption These days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Grouphide caption These days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Group These days, to be a successful lawyer it's often not enough just to be good at the lawyering part, you also have to be good at selling yourself. Maybe even swing on a vine with a monkeyJungle Law Group The lawyer commercial is almost an art form unto itself. Learned practitioners of the law doing whatever it takes to get your attention, from impressivedirt bike stuntsto running aroundhalf naked. All so when you land in trouble, you don't have to think hard to remember their name. Odds are you can name one or two right now. On today's episode, how that changed. How a couple of lawyers placing an ad in a local newspaper led to the inescapable world of law firm ads we know today. And, how the right to advertise got put on the same level as some of the most important, fundamental rights we have. This episode was hosted by Nick Fountain and Jeff Guo. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Sean Saldana. It was edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Valentina Rodríguez Sánchez. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra