# [PODCAST] TSMC Earnings, The AI Milestone

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/tsmc-earnings-the-ai-milestone/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L3RzbWMtZWFybmluZ3MtdGhlLWFpLW1pbGVzdG9uZS8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTc2MTE2OTExNywiaWF0IjoxNzU4NTc3MTE3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwcC5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyBwb2RjYXN0IHJzcyIsInN1YiI6ImMwZWRkNGMyLWUyNzMtNDdiMS1hY2JlLTUwYWU5ZjEzODUxOCIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.Qqwr8hns2lGk8SfVXFLMl8lvsQnprCiBP5nUKXeSBbI8SRVn-wLKT43DO7jVgWQX3lkBWiwtwPsaSxIPP6MmcTimDAUee8d9V97bqUngvXd-S6hdFE7p_80I3aWhrMKd5YSckevWmblb4xi9j8bHA4POlY0yb9WsRleATB8utdjKhWKWvriUD0gas3NCF-LjGrUHqqjdgnwtU2O__R4brjvuOgRedOwYHjr6-cIZhYlnd5aiW9c-Qq5NrjWBGYl2LOtbqPgEWBHoMbKbHqljbmPzICObkB4pQY0mQnFSxESrosS5ywMdB5FNNUO0x-mC89kBWOnJBvuRGElKlFjZBw
**Atlas ID**: 229711
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.951547

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirTSMC Earnings, The AI MilestoneTuesday, August 20, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday’s Sharp Tech was (as I discussedyesterday) the inaugural episode of Mailbag Monday; inthis episodewe discussed smartphone subsidies, Apple Intelligence and Search, the vast array of group chat clients, and the intersection of the Metaverse and AI.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg, in July:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. lifted projections for 2024 revenue growth after quarterly results beat estimates, reflecting its confidence in the longevity of the global AI spending boom. The chipmaker for Apple Inc. and Nvidia Corp. now expects sales to grow more than the maximum mid-20% it had guided toward previously. For the current quarter, TSMC forecasts revenue of as much as $23.2 billion, above analysts’ projections. And it narrowed its forecast for capital spending to the high end of its outlook to $30 billion to $32 billion, from as low as $28 billion previously.The revisions underscore TSMC’s view that AI spending will remain elevated despite growing US-Chinese trade tensions. In both countries, startups and tech firms from Microsoft Corp. to Baidu Inc. are splurging on AI infrastructure, largely powered by Nvidia accelerators. TSMC’s US-listed shares rose 4% at 9:30 a.m. in New York on Thursday.I’m obviously getting to these earnings a month late, but there were a couple of interesting takeaways I wanted to highlight in this slow news period.The AI MilestoneAll quotes, unless otherwise noted, come fromthe company’s earnings call:Moving on to revenue contribution by platform, HPC increased 28% quarter over quarter to account for 52% of our second-quarter revenue, surpassing 50% for the first time. Smartphone decreased 1% to account for 33%. IoT increased 6% to account for 6%. Automotive increased 5% to account for 5%. And DCE increased 20% to account for 2%.HPC — high-performance computing — is basically high-end chips that aren’t smartphone chips; think PCs, servers, and, of course, AI-chips. It’s obviously the latter that has led to this milestone of HPC being more than half of TSMC’s revenue:You can see the growth more clearly by using actual revenue numbers instead of percentages:One thing to note here is that HPC was down in 2023, even though that came after the ChatGPT boom. Part of this was a lack of capacity as Nvidia was quickly sold out for months, but that was also when PCs in particular were in the dump. More broadly, there is a lot of discussion about the extent to which investments in AI are crowding out investments in traditional CPUs in the data center; what would be nice is if TSMC actually broke out GPUs from CPUs in their earnings, since not only are these different products, but there is also a good chance they move counter-cyclically.We have just guided our third-quarter gross margin to increase by 1.3 percentage points to 54.5% at the midpoint. This is primarily due to the higher overall capacity utilization rate in the third quarter and better cost improvement effort, including productivity gains, partially offset by continued dilution from N3 ramp-up, N5 to N3 tool conversion costs, and higher electricity prices in Taiwan. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate, of which we have no control over, and factoring in the margin impact from our global manufacturing footprint expansion plans, we continue to forecast a long-term gross margin of 53% and higher is achievable.One way to look at TSMC’s pricing is that it is at core a Cost-plus model; TSMC starts with the end goal, which is 53% margins, and backs into price. That does require making assumptions about volume, which is another way of saying that more or less volume — which directly impacts margin, given that the vast majority of costs are depreciation — drives TSMC’s margin, not price. This quarter TSMC had more volume than expected, ergo their margin was higher than 53%.The most important driver, of course, continues to be AI: TSMC made clear that they aren’t close to meeting demand, and hope they can “sometime in 2025 or 2026”. Moreover, TSMC expects AI to drive larger chip sizes on the edge in devices like smartphones and PCs, and eventually drive an upgrade cycle. Expect those margins to stay high, first on accident, and then on purpose (more on this in a moment).At this time, we would like to expand our original definition of foundry industry to Foundry 2.0, which also includes packaging, testing, mask-making, and others, and all IDM excluding memory manufacturing. We believe this new definition better reflects TSMC’s expanding addressable market opportunities in the future. However, I want to emphasize here that TSMC will only focus on the most advanced back-end technologies, which help our customers in leading-edge products. Under this new definition, the size of the foundry industry was close to USD250 billion in 2023 as compared to USD115 billion under the previous definition. With our new definition, we forecast foundry industry growth to be close to 10% year over year in 2024. TSMC’s share of the foundry industry under our new definition was 28% in 2023. Supported by our strong technology leadership and broader customer base, we expect this to further increase in 2024.This is a reasonable change in definition; the old foundry definition excluded IDM’s like Intel, and also excluded advanced packaging, which is both the biggest chokepoint for AI chip production and an increasingly valuable business in its own right. Intel, notably, is competing for both foundry and packaging business now, and while the company still makes most of the chips it designs, it is explicitly reporting results separately, not as an IDM.One notable bit about that advanced packaging — which, by-and-large, means chiplets, where the CPU, GPU, NPU, memory, etc. are on separate dies, instead of one monolithic die, connected by a silicon substrate — is that while it is primarily used in HPC now, it will be coming to smartphones as well. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to an analyst question:As my customer moving into 2-nanometer or A16, they all need to probably take in the approach of chiplets. So once you use your chiplets, you have to use advanced packaging technologies. On the Edge AI, for those kind of smartphone customers, as compared with the HPC customers, HPC is moving faster because of bandwidth concern, latency, footprint, or all those kind of thing. For smartphone customers, they need to pay more attention to the footprint as well as the functionality increase.One area where TSMC has been more opportunistic about price — or, more rational, you might argue — is with advanced packaging; this used to be a lower margin business than the fabs, but is now approaching the same margins.Back to Wei’s prepared remarks:Our 2-nanometer and A16 technologies, these are industry in addressing the insatiable need for energy-efficient computing and almost all the AI innovators are working with TSMC. We expect the number of the new tape-outs for 2-nanometer technologies in its first two years to be higher than both 3-nanometer and 5-nanometer in their first two years. N2 will deliver full node performance and power benefit, with 10% to 15% speed improvement at the same power, or 25% to 30% power improvement at the same speed, and more than 15% chip density increase as compared with N3E. N2 technology development is progressing well, with device performance and yield on track, all ahead of plan. N2 is on track for volume production in 2025 with a ramp profile similar to N3.For many nodes now Apple has been the first customer, with others like Nvidia or Qualcomm following a year later, and AMD often another year after that. What seems clear is that those days are over, at least for now: everyone wants to get on N2 as soon as possible.This also gives TSMC a window to push up that margin target. First, Wei said in an answer about TSMC’s reluctance to raise prices, that analysts should view 53% as a floor:Thank you for recognizing TSMC’s value. I’m working with our customers. As I said, this kind of pricing is strategic. And certainly, we want to sell our value. Changing the target at this moment, I think I would like to emphasize 53% and higher. Please put more attention to “and higher.” The number, I’m not going to change it at this time. When I have more conversation with my customers and discuss with them, I probably will give you “and higher” portion, okay?Then came this question-and-answer about the N2 ramp:You mentioned earlier that every clients are now engaged with you on the 2-nanometers migration. So I’m just wondering that, when we enter in maybe 2026, the second year, can we expect that the revenue contribution initially will be larger than what we had comparing to N3? And also wondering that since the performance is much better, so can we expect the dilution’s period will also be shorter than N3?The revenue, yes, it’s going to be bigger. Gross margin dilution, it will be faster to reach corporate average.In short, TSMC isn’t going to make the same mistake they made with N3,which was priced too low.What is interesting is what might happen in 2026:With our strategy of continuous enhancement, we also introduced N2P as an extension of our N2 family. N2P features a further 5% performance at the same power, or 5% to 10% power benefit at the same speed on top of the N2. N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications, and volume production is scheduled for the second half 2026.We also introduced A16 as our next nanosheet-based technology, featuring Super Power Rail, or SPR, as a separate offering. TSMC’s SPR is innovative, best-in-class backside power delivery solution that is the first in the industry to incorporate a novel backside contact scheme to preserve gate density and device width flexibility. Compared with N2P, A16 provides a further 8% to 10% speed improvement at the same power, or 15% to 20% power improvement at the same speed, and additional 7% to 10% chip density gain.A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network. Volume production is scheduled for second half 2026. We believe N2, N2P, A16 and its derivatives will further extend our technology leadership position and enable TSMC to capture the growth opportunities well into the future.Notice that N2P and A16 are both coming out in the second half of 2026, and that while “N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications”, “A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network”; that product, to be clear, is AI chips, which is to say that this 50% revenue mark is only the first milestone: 2026 could mark the first year in a decade that Apple wasn’t the launch customer — or even a customer at all! — for TSMC’s fastest process.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024Chips and ChinaDateTuesday, October 25, 2022Intel’s HumblingDateTuesday, January 30, 2024←AMD Acquires ZT Systems, AMD’s Integration, Substack In-App PurchasesIntel Earnings, Intel’s Nadir→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air TSMC Earnings, The AI MilestoneTuesday, August 20, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday’s Sharp Tech was (as I discussedyesterday) the inaugural episode of Mailbag Monday; inthis episodewe discussed smartphone subsidies, Apple Intelligence and Search, the vast array of group chat clients, and the intersection of the Metaverse and AI.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg, in July:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. lifted projections for 2024 revenue growth after quarterly results beat estimates, reflecting its confidence in the longevity of the global AI spending boom. The chipmaker for Apple Inc. and Nvidia Corp. now expects sales to grow more than the maximum mid-20% it had guided toward previously. For the current quarter, TSMC forecasts revenue of as much as $23.2 billion, above analysts’ projections. And it narrowed its forecast for capital spending to the high end of its outlook to $30 billion to $32 billion, from as low as $28 billion previously.The revisions underscore TSMC’s view that AI spending will remain elevated despite growing US-Chinese trade tensions. In both countries, startups and tech firms from Microsoft Corp. to Baidu Inc. are splurging on AI infrastructure, largely powered by Nvidia accelerators. TSMC’s US-listed shares rose 4% at 9:30 a.m. in New York on Thursday.I’m obviously getting to these earnings a month late, but there were a couple of interesting takeaways I wanted to highlight in this slow news period.The AI MilestoneAll quotes, unless otherwise noted, come fromthe company’s earnings call:Moving on to revenue contribution by platform, HPC increased 28% quarter over quarter to account for 52% of our second-quarter revenue, surpassing 50% for the first time. Smartphone decreased 1% to account for 33%. IoT increased 6% to account for 6%. Automotive increased 5% to account for 5%. And DCE increased 20% to account for 2%.HPC — high-performance computing — is basically high-end chips that aren’t smartphone chips; think PCs, servers, and, of course, AI-chips. It’s obviously the latter that has led to this milestone of HPC being more than half of TSMC’s revenue:You can see the growth more clearly by using actual revenue numbers instead of percentages:One thing to note here is that HPC was down in 2023, even though that came after the ChatGPT boom. Part of this was a lack of capacity as Nvidia was quickly sold out for months, but that was also when PCs in particular were in the dump. More broadly, there is a lot of discussion about the extent to which investments in AI are crowding out investments in traditional CPUs in the data center; what would be nice is if TSMC actually broke out GPUs from CPUs in their earnings, since not only are these different products, but there is also a good chance they move counter-cyclically.We have just guided our third-quarter gross margin to increase by 1.3 percentage points to 54.5% at the midpoint. This is primarily due to the higher overall capacity utilization rate in the third quarter and better cost improvement effort, including productivity gains, partially offset by continued dilution from N3 ramp-up, N5 to N3 tool conversion costs, and higher electricity prices in Taiwan. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate, of which we have no control over, and factoring in the margin impact from our global manufacturing footprint expansion plans, we continue to forecast a long-term gross margin of 53% and higher is achievable.One way to look at TSMC’s pricing is that it is at core a Cost-plus model; TSMC starts with the end goal, which is 53% margins, and backs into price. That does require making assumptions about volume, which is another way of saying that more or less volume — which directly impacts margin, given that the vast majority of costs are depreciation — drives TSMC’s margin, not price. This quarter TSMC had more volume than expected, ergo their margin was higher than 53%.The most important driver, of course, continues to be AI: TSMC made clear that they aren’t close to meeting demand, and hope they can “sometime in 2025 or 2026”. Moreover, TSMC expects AI to drive larger chip sizes on the edge in devices like smartphones and PCs, and eventually drive an upgrade cycle. Expect those margins to stay high, first on accident, and then on purpose (more on this in a moment).At this time, we would like to expand our original definition of foundry industry to Foundry 2.0, which also includes packaging, testing, mask-making, and others, and all IDM excluding memory manufacturing. We believe this new definition better reflects TSMC’s expanding addressable market opportunities in the future. However, I want to emphasize here that TSMC will only focus on the most advanced back-end technologies, which help our customers in leading-edge products. Under this new definition, the size of the foundry industry was close to USD250 billion in 2023 as compared to USD115 billion under the previous definition. With our new definition, we forecast foundry industry growth to be close to 10% year over year in 2024. TSMC’s share of the foundry industry under our new definition was 28% in 2023. Supported by our strong technology leadership and broader customer base, we expect this to further increase in 2024.This is a reasonable change in definition; the old foundry definition excluded IDM’s like Intel, and also excluded advanced packaging, which is both the biggest chokepoint for AI chip production and an increasingly valuable business in its own right. Intel, notably, is competing for both foundry and packaging business now, and while the company still makes most of the chips it designs, it is explicitly reporting results separately, not as an IDM.One notable bit about that advanced packaging — which, by-and-large, means chiplets, where the CPU, GPU, NPU, memory, etc. are on separate dies, instead of one monolithic die, connected by a silicon substrate — is that while it is primarily used in HPC now, it will be coming to smartphones as well. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to an analyst question:As my customer moving into 2-nanometer or A16, they all need to probably take in the approach of chiplets. So once you use your chiplets, you have to use advanced packaging technologies. On the Edge AI, for those kind of smartphone customers, as compared with the HPC customers, HPC is moving faster because of bandwidth concern, latency, footprint, or all those kind of thing. For smartphone customers, they need to pay more attention to the footprint as well as the functionality increase.One area where TSMC has been more opportunistic about price — or, more rational, you might argue — is with advanced packaging; this used to be a lower margin business than the fabs, but is now approaching the same margins.Back to Wei’s prepared remarks:Our 2-nanometer and A16 technologies, these are industry in addressing the insatiable need for energy-efficient computing and almost all the AI innovators are working with TSMC. We expect the number of the new tape-outs for 2-nanometer technologies in its first two years to be higher than both 3-nanometer and 5-nanometer in their first two years. N2 will deliver full node performance and power benefit, with 10% to 15% speed improvement at the same power, or 25% to 30% power improvement at the same speed, and more than 15% chip density increase as compared with N3E. N2 technology development is progressing well, with device performance and yield on track, all ahead of plan. N2 is on track for volume production in 2025 with a ramp profile similar to N3.For many nodes now Apple has been the first customer, with others like Nvidia or Qualcomm following a year later, and AMD often another year after that. What seems clear is that those days are over, at least for now: everyone wants to get on N2 as soon as possible.This also gives TSMC a window to push up that margin target. First, Wei said in an answer about TSMC’s reluctance to raise prices, that analysts should view 53% as a floor:Thank you for recognizing TSMC’s value. I’m working with our customers. As I said, this kind of pricing is strategic. And certainly, we want to sell our value. Changing the target at this moment, I think I would like to emphasize 53% and higher. Please put more attention to “and higher.” The number, I’m not going to change it at this time. When I have more conversation with my customers and discuss with them, I probably will give you “and higher” portion, okay?Then came this question-and-answer about the N2 ramp:You mentioned earlier that every clients are now engaged with you on the 2-nanometers migration. So I’m just wondering that, when we enter in maybe 2026, the second year, can we expect that the revenue contribution initially will be larger than what we had comparing to N3? And also wondering that since the performance is much better, so can we expect the dilution’s period will also be shorter than N3?The revenue, yes, it’s going to be bigger. Gross margin dilution, it will be faster to reach corporate average.In short, TSMC isn’t going to make the same mistake they made with N3,which was priced too low.What is interesting is what might happen in 2026:With our strategy of continuous enhancement, we also introduced N2P as an extension of our N2 family. N2P features a further 5% performance at the same power, or 5% to 10% power benefit at the same speed on top of the N2. N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications, and volume production is scheduled for the second half 2026.We also introduced A16 as our next nanosheet-based technology, featuring Super Power Rail, or SPR, as a separate offering. TSMC’s SPR is innovative, best-in-class backside power delivery solution that is the first in the industry to incorporate a novel backside contact scheme to preserve gate density and device width flexibility. Compared with N2P, A16 provides a further 8% to 10% speed improvement at the same power, or 15% to 20% power improvement at the same speed, and additional 7% to 10% chip density gain.A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network. Volume production is scheduled for second half 2026. We believe N2, N2P, A16 and its derivatives will further extend our technology leadership position and enable TSMC to capture the growth opportunities well into the future.Notice that N2P and A16 are both coming out in the second half of 2026, and that while “N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications”, “A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network”; that product, to be clear, is AI chips, which is to say that this 50% revenue mark is only the first milestone: 2026 could mark the first year in a decade that Apple wasn’t the launch customer — or even a customer at all! — for TSMC’s fastest process.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024Chips and ChinaDateTuesday, October 25, 2022Intel’s HumblingDateTuesday, January 30, 2024←AMD Acquires ZT Systems, AMD’s Integration, Substack In-App PurchasesIntel Earnings, Intel’s Nadir→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All TSMC Earnings, The AI MilestoneTuesday, August 20, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday’s Sharp Tech was (as I discussedyesterday) the inaugural episode of Mailbag Monday; inthis episodewe discussed smartphone subsidies, Apple Intelligence and Search, the vast array of group chat clients, and the intersection of the Metaverse and AI.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg, in July:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. lifted projections for 2024 revenue growth after quarterly results beat estimates, reflecting its confidence in the longevity of the global AI spending boom. The chipmaker for Apple Inc. and Nvidia Corp. now expects sales to grow more than the maximum mid-20% it had guided toward previously. For the current quarter, TSMC forecasts revenue of as much as $23.2 billion, above analysts’ projections. And it narrowed its forecast for capital spending to the high end of its outlook to $30 billion to $32 billion, from as low as $28 billion previously.The revisions underscore TSMC’s view that AI spending will remain elevated despite growing US-Chinese trade tensions. In both countries, startups and tech firms from Microsoft Corp. to Baidu Inc. are splurging on AI infrastructure, largely powered by Nvidia accelerators. TSMC’s US-listed shares rose 4% at 9:30 a.m. in New York on Thursday.I’m obviously getting to these earnings a month late, but there were a couple of interesting takeaways I wanted to highlight in this slow news period.The AI MilestoneAll quotes, unless otherwise noted, come fromthe company’s earnings call:Moving on to revenue contribution by platform, HPC increased 28% quarter over quarter to account for 52% of our second-quarter revenue, surpassing 50% for the first time. Smartphone decreased 1% to account for 33%. IoT increased 6% to account for 6%. Automotive increased 5% to account for 5%. And DCE increased 20% to account for 2%.HPC — high-performance computing — is basically high-end chips that aren’t smartphone chips; think PCs, servers, and, of course, AI-chips. It’s obviously the latter that has led to this milestone of HPC being more than half of TSMC’s revenue:You can see the growth more clearly by using actual revenue numbers instead of percentages:One thing to note here is that HPC was down in 2023, even though that came after the ChatGPT boom. Part of this was a lack of capacity as Nvidia was quickly sold out for months, but that was also when PCs in particular were in the dump. More broadly, there is a lot of discussion about the extent to which investments in AI are crowding out investments in traditional CPUs in the data center; what would be nice is if TSMC actually broke out GPUs from CPUs in their earnings, since not only are these different products, but there is also a good chance they move counter-cyclically.We have just guided our third-quarter gross margin to increase by 1.3 percentage points to 54.5% at the midpoint. This is primarily due to the higher overall capacity utilization rate in the third quarter and better cost improvement effort, including productivity gains, partially offset by continued dilution from N3 ramp-up, N5 to N3 tool conversion costs, and higher electricity prices in Taiwan. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate, of which we have no control over, and factoring in the margin impact from our global manufacturing footprint expansion plans, we continue to forecast a long-term gross margin of 53% and higher is achievable.One way to look at TSMC’s pricing is that it is at core a Cost-plus model; TSMC starts with the end goal, which is 53% margins, and backs into price. That does require making assumptions about volume, which is another way of saying that more or less volume — which directly impacts margin, given that the vast majority of costs are depreciation — drives TSMC’s margin, not price. This quarter TSMC had more volume than expected, ergo their margin was higher than 53%.The most important driver, of course, continues to be AI: TSMC made clear that they aren’t close to meeting demand, and hope they can “sometime in 2025 or 2026”. Moreover, TSMC expects AI to drive larger chip sizes on the edge in devices like smartphones and PCs, and eventually drive an upgrade cycle. Expect those margins to stay high, first on accident, and then on purpose (more on this in a moment).At this time, we would like to expand our original definition of foundry industry to Foundry 2.0, which also includes packaging, testing, mask-making, and others, and all IDM excluding memory manufacturing. We believe this new definition better reflects TSMC’s expanding addressable market opportunities in the future. However, I want to emphasize here that TSMC will only focus on the most advanced back-end technologies, which help our customers in leading-edge products. Under this new definition, the size of the foundry industry was close to USD250 billion in 2023 as compared to USD115 billion under the previous definition. With our new definition, we forecast foundry industry growth to be close to 10% year over year in 2024. TSMC’s share of the foundry industry under our new definition was 28% in 2023. Supported by our strong technology leadership and broader customer base, we expect this to further increase in 2024.This is a reasonable change in definition; the old foundry definition excluded IDM’s like Intel, and also excluded advanced packaging, which is both the biggest chokepoint for AI chip production and an increasingly valuable business in its own right. Intel, notably, is competing for both foundry and packaging business now, and while the company still makes most of the chips it designs, it is explicitly reporting results separately, not as an IDM.One notable bit about that advanced packaging — which, by-and-large, means chiplets, where the CPU, GPU, NPU, memory, etc. are on separate dies, instead of one monolithic die, connected by a silicon substrate — is that while it is primarily used in HPC now, it will be coming to smartphones as well. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to an analyst question:As my customer moving into 2-nanometer or A16, they all need to probably take in the approach of chiplets. So once you use your chiplets, you have to use advanced packaging technologies. On the Edge AI, for those kind of smartphone customers, as compared with the HPC customers, HPC is moving faster because of bandwidth concern, latency, footprint, or all those kind of thing. For smartphone customers, they need to pay more attention to the footprint as well as the functionality increase.One area where TSMC has been more opportunistic about price — or, more rational, you might argue — is with advanced packaging; this used to be a lower margin business than the fabs, but is now approaching the same margins.Back to Wei’s prepared remarks:Our 2-nanometer and A16 technologies, these are industry in addressing the insatiable need for energy-efficient computing and almost all the AI innovators are working with TSMC. We expect the number of the new tape-outs for 2-nanometer technologies in its first two years to be higher than both 3-nanometer and 5-nanometer in their first two years. N2 will deliver full node performance and power benefit, with 10% to 15% speed improvement at the same power, or 25% to 30% power improvement at the same speed, and more than 15% chip density increase as compared with N3E. N2 technology development is progressing well, with device performance and yield on track, all ahead of plan. N2 is on track for volume production in 2025 with a ramp profile similar to N3.For many nodes now Apple has been the first customer, with others like Nvidia or Qualcomm following a year later, and AMD often another year after that. What seems clear is that those days are over, at least for now: everyone wants to get on N2 as soon as possible.This also gives TSMC a window to push up that margin target. First, Wei said in an answer about TSMC’s reluctance to raise prices, that analysts should view 53% as a floor:Thank you for recognizing TSMC’s value. I’m working with our customers. As I said, this kind of pricing is strategic. And certainly, we want to sell our value. Changing the target at this moment, I think I would like to emphasize 53% and higher. Please put more attention to “and higher.” The number, I’m not going to change it at this time. When I have more conversation with my customers and discuss with them, I probably will give you “and higher” portion, okay?Then came this question-and-answer about the N2 ramp:You mentioned earlier that every clients are now engaged with you on the 2-nanometers migration. So I’m just wondering that, when we enter in maybe 2026, the second year, can we expect that the revenue contribution initially will be larger than what we had comparing to N3? And also wondering that since the performance is much better, so can we expect the dilution’s period will also be shorter than N3?The revenue, yes, it’s going to be bigger. Gross margin dilution, it will be faster to reach corporate average.In short, TSMC isn’t going to make the same mistake they made with N3,which was priced too low.What is interesting is what might happen in 2026:With our strategy of continuous enhancement, we also introduced N2P as an extension of our N2 family. N2P features a further 5% performance at the same power, or 5% to 10% power benefit at the same speed on top of the N2. N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications, and volume production is scheduled for the second half 2026.We also introduced A16 as our next nanosheet-based technology, featuring Super Power Rail, or SPR, as a separate offering. TSMC’s SPR is innovative, best-in-class backside power delivery solution that is the first in the industry to incorporate a novel backside contact scheme to preserve gate density and device width flexibility. Compared with N2P, A16 provides a further 8% to 10% speed improvement at the same power, or 15% to 20% power improvement at the same speed, and additional 7% to 10% chip density gain.A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network. Volume production is scheduled for second half 2026. We believe N2, N2P, A16 and its derivatives will further extend our technology leadership position and enable TSMC to capture the growth opportunities well into the future.Notice that N2P and A16 are both coming out in the second half of 2026, and that while “N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications”, “A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network”; that product, to be clear, is AI chips, which is to say that this 50% revenue mark is only the first milestone: 2026 could mark the first year in a decade that Apple wasn’t the launch customer — or even a customer at all! — for TSMC’s fastest process.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 2024Chips and ChinaDateTuesday, October 25, 2022Intel’s HumblingDateTuesday, January 30, 2024←AMD Acquires ZT Systems, AMD’s Integration, Substack In-App PurchasesIntel Earnings, Intel’s Nadir→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday’s Sharp Tech was (as I discussedyesterday) the inaugural episode of Mailbag Monday; inthis episodewe discussed smartphone subsidies, Apple Intelligence and Search, the vast array of group chat clients, and the intersection of the Metaverse and AI.On to the Update:TSMC EarningsFromBloomberg, in July:Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. lifted projections for 2024 revenue growth after quarterly results beat estimates, reflecting its confidence in the longevity of the global AI spending boom. The chipmaker for Apple Inc. and Nvidia Corp. now expects sales to grow more than the maximum mid-20% it had guided toward previously. For the current quarter, TSMC forecasts revenue of as much as $23.2 billion, above analysts’ projections. And it narrowed its forecast for capital spending to the high end of its outlook to $30 billion to $32 billion, from as low as $28 billion previously.The revisions underscore TSMC’s view that AI spending will remain elevated despite growing US-Chinese trade tensions. In both countries, startups and tech firms from Microsoft Corp. to Baidu Inc. are splurging on AI infrastructure, largely powered by Nvidia accelerators. TSMC’s US-listed shares rose 4% at 9:30 a.m. in New York on Thursday.I’m obviously getting to these earnings a month late, but there were a couple of interesting takeaways I wanted to highlight in this slow news period.The AI MilestoneAll quotes, unless otherwise noted, come fromthe company’s earnings call:Moving on to revenue contribution by platform, HPC increased 28% quarter over quarter to account for 52% of our second-quarter revenue, surpassing 50% for the first time. Smartphone decreased 1% to account for 33%. IoT increased 6% to account for 6%. Automotive increased 5% to account for 5%. And DCE increased 20% to account for 2%.HPC — high-performance computing — is basically high-end chips that aren’t smartphone chips; think PCs, servers, and, of course, AI-chips. It’s obviously the latter that has led to this milestone of HPC being more than half of TSMC’s revenue:You can see the growth more clearly by using actual revenue numbers instead of percentages:One thing to note here is that HPC was down in 2023, even though that came after the ChatGPT boom. Part of this was a lack of capacity as Nvidia was quickly sold out for months, but that was also when PCs in particular were in the dump. More broadly, there is a lot of discussion about the extent to which investments in AI are crowding out investments in traditional CPUs in the data center; what would be nice is if TSMC actually broke out GPUs from CPUs in their earnings, since not only are these different products, but there is also a good chance they move counter-cyclically.We have just guided our third-quarter gross margin to increase by 1.3 percentage points to 54.5% at the midpoint. This is primarily due to the higher overall capacity utilization rate in the third quarter and better cost improvement effort, including productivity gains, partially offset by continued dilution from N3 ramp-up, N5 to N3 tool conversion costs, and higher electricity prices in Taiwan. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate, of which we have no control over, and factoring in the margin impact from our global manufacturing footprint expansion plans, we continue to forecast a long-term gross margin of 53% and higher is achievable.One way to look at TSMC’s pricing is that it is at core a Cost-plus model; TSMC starts with the end goal, which is 53% margins, and backs into price. That does require making assumptions about volume, which is another way of saying that more or less volume — which directly impacts margin, given that the vast majority of costs are depreciation — drives TSMC’s margin, not price. This quarter TSMC had more volume than expected, ergo their margin was higher than 53%.The most important driver, of course, continues to be AI: TSMC made clear that they aren’t close to meeting demand, and hope they can “sometime in 2025 or 2026”. Moreover, TSMC expects AI to drive larger chip sizes on the edge in devices like smartphones and PCs, and eventually drive an upgrade cycle. Expect those margins to stay high, first on accident, and then on purpose (more on this in a moment).At this time, we would like to expand our original definition of foundry industry to Foundry 2.0, which also includes packaging, testing, mask-making, and others, and all IDM excluding memory manufacturing. We believe this new definition better reflects TSMC’s expanding addressable market opportunities in the future. However, I want to emphasize here that TSMC will only focus on the most advanced back-end technologies, which help our customers in leading-edge products. Under this new definition, the size of the foundry industry was close to USD250 billion in 2023 as compared to USD115 billion under the previous definition. With our new definition, we forecast foundry industry growth to be close to 10% year over year in 2024. TSMC’s share of the foundry industry under our new definition was 28% in 2023. Supported by our strong technology leadership and broader customer base, we expect this to further increase in 2024.This is a reasonable change in definition; the old foundry definition excluded IDM’s like Intel, and also excluded advanced packaging, which is both the biggest chokepoint for AI chip production and an increasingly valuable business in its own right. Intel, notably, is competing for both foundry and packaging business now, and while the company still makes most of the chips it designs, it is explicitly reporting results separately, not as an IDM.One notable bit about that advanced packaging — which, by-and-large, means chiplets, where the CPU, GPU, NPU, memory, etc. are on separate dies, instead of one monolithic die, connected by a silicon substrate — is that while it is primarily used in HPC now, it will be coming to smartphones as well. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to an analyst question:As my customer moving into 2-nanometer or A16, they all need to probably take in the approach of chiplets. So once you use your chiplets, you have to use advanced packaging technologies. On the Edge AI, for those kind of smartphone customers, as compared with the HPC customers, HPC is moving faster because of bandwidth concern, latency, footprint, or all those kind of thing. For smartphone customers, they need to pay more attention to the footprint as well as the functionality increase.One area where TSMC has been more opportunistic about price — or, more rational, you might argue — is with advanced packaging; this used to be a lower margin business than the fabs, but is now approaching the same margins.Back to Wei’s prepared remarks:Our 2-nanometer and A16 technologies, these are industry in addressing the insatiable need for energy-efficient computing and almost all the AI innovators are working with TSMC. We expect the number of the new tape-outs for 2-nanometer technologies in its first two years to be higher than both 3-nanometer and 5-nanometer in their first two years. N2 will deliver full node performance and power benefit, with 10% to 15% speed improvement at the same power, or 25% to 30% power improvement at the same speed, and more than 15% chip density increase as compared with N3E. N2 technology development is progressing well, with device performance and yield on track, all ahead of plan. N2 is on track for volume production in 2025 with a ramp profile similar to N3.For many nodes now Apple has been the first customer, with others like Nvidia or Qualcomm following a year later, and AMD often another year after that. What seems clear is that those days are over, at least for now: everyone wants to get on N2 as soon as possible.This also gives TSMC a window to push up that margin target. First, Wei said in an answer about TSMC’s reluctance to raise prices, that analysts should view 53% as a floor:Thank you for recognizing TSMC’s value. I’m working with our customers. As I said, this kind of pricing is strategic. And certainly, we want to sell our value. Changing the target at this moment, I think I would like to emphasize 53% and higher. Please put more attention to “and higher.” The number, I’m not going to change it at this time. When I have more conversation with my customers and discuss with them, I probably will give you “and higher” portion, okay?Then came this question-and-answer about the N2 ramp:You mentioned earlier that every clients are now engaged with you on the 2-nanometers migration. So I’m just wondering that, when we enter in maybe 2026, the second year, can we expect that the revenue contribution initially will be larger than what we had comparing to N3? And also wondering that since the performance is much better, so can we expect the dilution’s period will also be shorter than N3?The revenue, yes, it’s going to be bigger. Gross margin dilution, it will be faster to reach corporate average.In short, TSMC isn’t going to make the same mistake they made with N3,which was priced too low.What is interesting is what might happen in 2026:With our strategy of continuous enhancement, we also introduced N2P as an extension of our N2 family. N2P features a further 5% performance at the same power, or 5% to 10% power benefit at the same speed on top of the N2. N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications, and volume production is scheduled for the second half 2026.We also introduced A16 as our next nanosheet-based technology, featuring Super Power Rail, or SPR, as a separate offering. TSMC’s SPR is innovative, best-in-class backside power delivery solution that is the first in the industry to incorporate a novel backside contact scheme to preserve gate density and device width flexibility. Compared with N2P, A16 provides a further 8% to 10% speed improvement at the same power, or 15% to 20% power improvement at the same speed, and additional 7% to 10% chip density gain.A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network. Volume production is scheduled for second half 2026. We believe N2, N2P, A16 and its derivatives will further extend our technology leadership position and enable TSMC to capture the growth opportunities well into the future.Notice that N2P and A16 are both coming out in the second half of 2026, and that while “N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications”, “A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network”; that product, to be clear, is AI chips, which is to say that this 50% revenue mark is only the first milestone: 2026 could mark the first year in a decade that Apple wasn’t the launch customer — or even a customer at all! — for TSMC’s fastest process.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Yesterday’s Sharp Tech was (as I discussedyesterday) the inaugural episode of Mailbag Monday; inthis episodewe discussed smartphone subsidies, Apple Intelligence and Search, the vast array of group chat clients, and the intersection of the Metaverse and AI. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. lifted projections for 2024 revenue growth after quarterly results beat estimates, reflecting its confidence in the longevity of the global AI spending boom. The chipmaker for Apple Inc. and Nvidia Corp. now expects sales to grow more than the maximum mid-20% it had guided toward previously. For the current quarter, TSMC forecasts revenue of as much as $23.2 billion, above analysts’ projections. And it narrowed its forecast for capital spending to the high end of its outlook to $30 billion to $32 billion, from as low as $28 billion previously. The revisions underscore TSMC’s view that AI spending will remain elevated despite growing US-Chinese trade tensions. In both countries, startups and tech firms from Microsoft Corp. to Baidu Inc. are splurging on AI infrastructure, largely powered by Nvidia accelerators. TSMC’s US-listed shares rose 4% at 9:30 a.m. in New York on Thursday. Moving on to revenue contribution by platform, HPC increased 28% quarter over quarter to account for 52% of our second-quarter revenue, surpassing 50% for the first time. Smartphone decreased 1% to account for 33%. IoT increased 6% to account for 6%. Automotive increased 5% to account for 5%. And DCE increased 20% to account for 2%. HPC — high-performance computing — is basically high-end chips that aren’t smartphone chips; think PCs, servers, and, of course, AI-chips. It’s obviously the latter that has led to this milestone of HPC being more than half of TSMC’s revenue: One thing to note here is that HPC was down in 2023, even though that came after the ChatGPT boom. Part of this was a lack of capacity as Nvidia was quickly sold out for months, but that was also when PCs in particular were in the dump. More broadly, there is a lot of discussion about the extent to which investments in AI are crowding out investments in traditional CPUs in the data center; what would be nice is if TSMC actually broke out GPUs from CPUs in their earnings, since not only are these different products, but there is also a good chance they move counter-cyclically. We have just guided our third-quarter gross margin to increase by 1.3 percentage points to 54.5% at the midpoint. This is primarily due to the higher overall capacity utilization rate in the third quarter and better cost improvement effort, including productivity gains, partially offset by continued dilution from N3 ramp-up, N5 to N3 tool conversion costs, and higher electricity prices in Taiwan. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate, of which we have no control over, and factoring in the margin impact from our global manufacturing footprint expansion plans, we continue to forecast a long-term gross margin of 53% and higher is achievable. One way to look at TSMC’s pricing is that it is at core a Cost-plus model; TSMC starts with the end goal, which is 53% margins, and backs into price. That does require making assumptions about volume, which is another way of saying that more or less volume — which directly impacts margin, given that the vast majority of costs are depreciation — drives TSMC’s margin, not price. This quarter TSMC had more volume than expected, ergo their margin was higher than 53%. The most important driver, of course, continues to be AI: TSMC made clear that they aren’t close to meeting demand, and hope they can “sometime in 2025 or 2026”. Moreover, TSMC expects AI to drive larger chip sizes on the edge in devices like smartphones and PCs, and eventually drive an upgrade cycle. Expect those margins to stay high, first on accident, and then on purpose (more on this in a moment). At this time, we would like to expand our original definition of foundry industry to Foundry 2.0, which also includes packaging, testing, mask-making, and others, and all IDM excluding memory manufacturing. We believe this new definition better reflects TSMC’s expanding addressable market opportunities in the future. However, I want to emphasize here that TSMC will only focus on the most advanced back-end technologies, which help our customers in leading-edge products. Under this new definition, the size of the foundry industry was close to USD250 billion in 2023 as compared to USD115 billion under the previous definition. With our new definition, we forecast foundry industry growth to be close to 10% year over year in 2024. TSMC’s share of the foundry industry under our new definition was 28% in 2023. Supported by our strong technology leadership and broader customer base, we expect this to further increase in 2024. This is a reasonable change in definition; the old foundry definition excluded IDM’s like Intel, and also excluded advanced packaging, which is both the biggest chokepoint for AI chip production and an increasingly valuable business in its own right. Intel, notably, is competing for both foundry and packaging business now, and while the company still makes most of the chips it designs, it is explicitly reporting results separately, not as an IDM. One notable bit about that advanced packaging — which, by-and-large, means chiplets, where the CPU, GPU, NPU, memory, etc. are on separate dies, instead of one monolithic die, connected by a silicon substrate — is that while it is primarily used in HPC now, it will be coming to smartphones as well. CEO C.C. Wei said in response to an analyst question: As my customer moving into 2-nanometer or A16, they all need to probably take in the approach of chiplets. So once you use your chiplets, you have to use advanced packaging technologies. On the Edge AI, for those kind of smartphone customers, as compared with the HPC customers, HPC is moving faster because of bandwidth concern, latency, footprint, or all those kind of thing. For smartphone customers, they need to pay more attention to the footprint as well as the functionality increase. One area where TSMC has been more opportunistic about price — or, more rational, you might argue — is with advanced packaging; this used to be a lower margin business than the fabs, but is now approaching the same margins. Our 2-nanometer and A16 technologies, these are industry in addressing the insatiable need for energy-efficient computing and almost all the AI innovators are working with TSMC. We expect the number of the new tape-outs for 2-nanometer technologies in its first two years to be higher than both 3-nanometer and 5-nanometer in their first two years. N2 will deliver full node performance and power benefit, with 10% to 15% speed improvement at the same power, or 25% to 30% power improvement at the same speed, and more than 15% chip density increase as compared with N3E. N2 technology development is progressing well, with device performance and yield on track, all ahead of plan. N2 is on track for volume production in 2025 with a ramp profile similar to N3. For many nodes now Apple has been the first customer, with others like Nvidia or Qualcomm following a year later, and AMD often another year after that. What seems clear is that those days are over, at least for now: everyone wants to get on N2 as soon as possible. Thank you for recognizing TSMC’s value. I’m working with our customers. As I said, this kind of pricing is strategic. And certainly, we want to sell our value. Changing the target at this moment, I think I would like to emphasize 53% and higher. Please put more attention to “and higher.” The number, I’m not going to change it at this time. When I have more conversation with my customers and discuss with them, I probably will give you “and higher” portion, okay? You mentioned earlier that every clients are now engaged with you on the 2-nanometers migration. So I’m just wondering that, when we enter in maybe 2026, the second year, can we expect that the revenue contribution initially will be larger than what we had comparing to N3? And also wondering that since the performance is much better, so can we expect the dilution’s period will also be shorter than N3? With our strategy of continuous enhancement, we also introduced N2P as an extension of our N2 family. N2P features a further 5% performance at the same power, or 5% to 10% power benefit at the same speed on top of the N2. N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications, and volume production is scheduled for the second half 2026. We also introduced A16 as our next nanosheet-based technology, featuring Super Power Rail, or SPR, as a separate offering. TSMC’s SPR is innovative, best-in-class backside power delivery solution that is the first in the industry to incorporate a novel backside contact scheme to preserve gate density and device width flexibility. Compared with N2P, A16 provides a further 8% to 10% speed improvement at the same power, or 15% to 20% power improvement at the same speed, and additional 7% to 10% chip density gain. A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network. Volume production is scheduled for second half 2026. We believe N2, N2P, A16 and its derivatives will further extend our technology leadership position and enable TSMC to capture the growth opportunities well into the future. Notice that N2P and A16 are both coming out in the second half of 2026, and that while “N2P will support both smartphone and HPC applications”, “A16 is best suited for specific HPC product with complex signal route and dense power delivery network”; that product, to be clear, is AI chips, which is to say that this 50% revenue mark is only the first milestone: 2026 could mark the first year in a decade that Apple wasn’t the launch customer — or even a customer at all! — for TSMC’s fastest process. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025