# [PODCAST] The new Biden plan that could still erase your student loans

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/08/08/1192703211/biden-save-plan-how-it-works
**Atlas ID**: 229493
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.846529

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Biden's SAVE plan offers student loan forgiveness in slow motion : Planet MoneyThis summer, the Supreme Court struck down Biden's plan to forgive student loan debt for millions of borrowers. Except, on the same day Biden first announced that plan, he also unveiledanother,the SAVE plan. And though SAVE sounded less significant than Biden's big forgiveness pledge, it's still alive and could erase even more student debt.SAVE is officially a loan repayment plan. But through a few seemingly minor yet powerful provisions, many more low-income borrowers will end up paying little or nothing until, eventually, their loans will be forgiven. Even many higher-income borrowers will see some of their debts erased.In this episode, we explain the history of income-driven repayment. And how borrowers could end up paying less than they might expect once payments resume in October. You can read more fromNPR's Cory Turner's here.This episode was hosted by Cory Turner and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Molly Messick. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/ Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Nola Strut," "Funky Ride," and "The Down Low Disco King" Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe new Biden plan that could still erase your student loansAugust 11, 20235:43 PM ETByCory Turner,Kenny Malone,Molly Messick,Emma PeasleeThe new Biden plan that could still erase your student loansListen·27:0127:01TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1192703211/1198959328" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imagePaul Morigi/Getty Images for We The 45 MilliPaul Morigi/Getty Images for We The 45 MilliEarlier this summer, the Supreme Court struck down President Biden's plan to forgive federal student loan debt for tens of millions of borrowers. It looked like this idea, of sweeping loan forgiveness, was dead. Except that on the same day Biden first announced that plan, he also unveiledanotherplan. It's called the SAVE plan. And though it sounded smaller and less important than the big loan forgiveness pledge, in the end it could erase even more student debt.The SAVE plan is officially a loan repayment program. But, through a series of seemingly minor yet powerful changes to the way student loan repayment usually works, many more low-income borrowers will end up paying $0 a month towards their loans. And then, eventually, the remaining loan balance will be forgiven. This means that even many higher-income borrowers will see at least some of their debts erased.Sponsor MessageEducationYou could still be eligible for student loan forgiveness under this planThe story behind this plan – and why it stands a better chance of surviving a legal challenge – goes back to the Clinton Administration. In this episode, we explain the history of income-driven repayment. And how, if you have student loans, you could end up paying a lot less than you might expect once payments resume in October. You can read more fromNPR's Cory Turner's here.This episode is hosted by Cory Turner and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Molly Messick. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/ Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Nola Strut," "Funky Ride," and "The Down Low Disco King"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The new Biden plan that could still erase your student loansListen·27:0127:01TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1192703211/1198959328" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The new Biden plan that could still erase your student loansListen·27:0127:01TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1192703211/1198959328" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1192703211/1198959328" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imagePaul Morigi/Getty Images for We The 45 MilliPaul Morigi/Getty Images for We The 45 MilliEarlier this summer, the Supreme Court struck down President Biden's plan to forgive federal student loan debt for tens of millions of borrowers. It looked like this idea, of sweeping loan forgiveness, was dead. Except that on the same day Biden first announced that plan, he also unveiledanotherplan. It's called the SAVE plan. And though it sounded smaller and less important than the big loan forgiveness pledge, in the end it could erase even more student debt.The SAVE plan is officially a loan repayment program. But, through a series of seemingly minor yet powerful changes to the way student loan repayment usually works, many more low-income borrowers will end up paying $0 a month towards their loans. And then, eventually, the remaining loan balance will be forgiven. This means that even many higher-income borrowers will see at least some of their debts erased.Sponsor MessageEducationYou could still be eligible for student loan forgiveness under this planThe story behind this plan – and why it stands a better chance of surviving a legal challenge – goes back to the Clinton Administration. In this episode, we explain the history of income-driven repayment. And how, if you have student loans, you could end up paying a lot less than you might expect once payments resume in October. You can read more fromNPR's Cory Turner's here.This episode is hosted by Cory Turner and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Molly Messick. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/ Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Nola Strut," "Funky Ride," and "The Down Low Disco King" Earlier this summer, the Supreme Court struck down President Biden's plan to forgive federal student loan debt for tens of millions of borrowers. It looked like this idea, of sweeping loan forgiveness, was dead. Except that on the same day Biden first announced that plan, he also unveiledanotherplan. It's called the SAVE plan. And though it sounded smaller and less important than the big loan forgiveness pledge, in the end it could erase even more student debt.The SAVE plan is officially a loan repayment program. But, through a series of seemingly minor yet powerful changes to the way student loan repayment usually works, many more low-income borrowers will end up paying $0 a month towards their loans. And then, eventually, the remaining loan balance will be forgiven. This means that even many higher-income borrowers will see at least some of their debts erased. The story behind this plan – and why it stands a better chance of surviving a legal challenge – goes back to the Clinton Administration. In this episode, we explain the history of income-driven repayment. And how, if you have student loans, you could end up paying a lot less than you might expect once payments resume in October. You can read more fromNPR's Cory Turner's here.This episode is hosted by Cory Turner and Kenny Malone. It was produced by Emma Peaslee, and edited by Molly Messick. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra