# [PODCAST] Google Earnings, Google Flips the Switch on Cloud, Search Notes

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/google-earnings-google-flips-the-switch-on-cloud-search-notes/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.lO7zYpT0y_6bH4UMFtCE0smEYqrgpvlMRZfbe5-d-JMlV83gXoDOdsvoS7J2rXv0ofrD_M8ENfMYnt_N1QXvGhsPj4AqLuOKDV19Pu9Y_02yibKoPrVSjRfq-cjhQFoLUFCaNoimEfswvwYoe9zTCN6QNiiMkS5FQcS5y1dy2-WQ36LeZxzDTgO_4wYh0OODCDuiDyt0DH7iDddq2uo1IZFNX3ISCATncZPC2H6jAfDP8kPP3lX4Zd9fHvdZzFmmFwCfUR_geM7pqXu3Mgr0eAl4NiFGsxZJmA_ejFlBTeGh_RWa8s5Gj_0q9Tza6TgAjRZIrcI-1ouhmkc9_feujg
**Atlas ID**: 229545
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.860959

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirGoogle Earnings, Google Flips the Switch on Cloud, Search NotesThursday, July 24, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Thursday! On Tuesday I totally forgot to warn you that I was going to delay this week’s third Update by a day; I debated sending out an extra email yesterday to let you know, but I figured it’s summer and we could all roll with it. Anyhow, here I am — and thanks for your understanding.Last year I interviewedRescale CEO Joris Poortwhere we touched on his work using computers to design the wing for the Boeing Dreamliner; Jon over atAsianometryhasa new video explaining more about how computers helped build the 787.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Alphabet Inc. said demand for artificial intelligence products boosted quarterly sales, and now requires an extreme increase in capital spending — heightening pressure on the company to justify the cost of keeping up in the AI race.Google’s parent company said 2025 capital expenditures will be $85 billion, or $10 billion greater than an earlier forecast. Although Alphabet beat expectations for second-quarter revenue and profit, its stock initially sank in after-hours trading, then rebounded after Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai explained that the investments are necessary in order to keep up with customer needs. “Our AI infrastructure investments are crucial to meeting the growth in demand from cloud customers,” he said on a call Wednesday following the report.As Microsoft Corp., startup OpenAI, Meta Platforms Inc. and others continue to pour money into AI, Alphabet has little choice but to follow suit, analysts said. The race is particularly urgent for Google: competitors are building chatbots that may eventually appeal to consumers more than its flagship search product. “Google’s hand is forced by OpenAI to spend tremendously on AI’s infrastructure and applications,” said Nikhil Lai, an analyst at Forrester.I get this framing, I really do. I’ve repeatedly laid out the theoretical case for why AI is potentially disruptive to Google, starting with 2023’sAI and the Big Five. It remains something to monitor.Once again, however, I have to come to Google’s defense: all available metrics suggest that the company is doing quite well. Indeed, I would go further: you can make the case that the company’s biggest mistake is not going harder!Google Flips the Switch on CloudBy “once again”, I’m referring to what I wrote after Google’s 4Q 2024 earnings and their announcement that they would be spending $75 billion on capex this year; fromFebruary 2025, when Google Cloud’s revenue numbers disappointed:Notice how those numbers differ from Q3 2023, the last time Google Cloud disappointed: in that quarter revenue growth disappointed and margin decreased, which suggests that Google had too much capacity for the revenue it earned, which is to say that the problem was a lack of demand.In Q4 2024, however, the opposite happened: [Google Cloud] revenue growth was a disappointment, but margins still rose; this suggests that the problem was a lack of supply in terms of infrastructure, and that is indeed exactly what management said on the earnings call…And now we’re back to the capex expansion: yes, that is a big increase, but there is at least one area of Google’s business — and it happens to be the area of Google’s business that gives outsiders the most visibility into AI demand — that doesn’t have enough.Look at the cloud numbers now:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Q2 2025$13,62432%$2,82621%Last quarter Google Cloud Platform increased growth and significantly increased margin, and, according to CFO Anat Ashkenazion the earnings call, it is still supply constrained:In Cloud, as I mentioned, the demand for our products is high as evidenced by the continued revenue growth and the cloud backlog of $106 billion. While we have been working hard to increase capacity and have improved the pace of server deployment, we expect to remain in a tight demand supply environment going into 2026.Given this, investors should absolutely be cheering Google’s latest increase in capex, which is primarily for Google Cloud; from Ashkenazi’s prepared remarks:Given the strong demand for our cloud products and services, we now expect to invest approximately $85 billion in CapEx in 2025, up from a previous estimate of $75 billion. Our updated outlook reflects additional investment in servers, the timing of delivery of servers and an acceleration in the pace of data center construction, primarily to meet cloud customer demand.The challenge, Pichai cautioned in an answer to an analyst question, is that it takes a while for these investments to come on board:Sundar, can you just talk about how you’re thinking about your current access to compute even as you spend $10 billion more this year in CapEx, you also said that you’re still in a tight supply environment. So just trying to marry those?On the CapEx stuff, obviously, we are seeing strong momentum across our portfolio and especially in cloud. You are right. It’s a tight supply environment. And we are investing more to expand, but there is obviously a time delay between this additional investment will play out in future years. And so that’s why both of them are true at the same time. But we are planning ahead, and we are investing, but overall, it’s exciting to see the traction, particularly in cloud. I think the comprehensiveness of our AI portfolio breadth of our offerings, both providing our models on GPUs and TPUs for our customers. All of that has been really driving demand. And so we are investing to match up to it.In short, what seems clear is that Google made the exact mistake that Pichai explicitly said the company did not want to make a year ago; from theQ2 2024 earnings call:I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside.I’m always hesitant to delve too much into executive changes below the CEO level, but it is interesting that that earnings call was Ruth Porat’s last one as CFO; Porat earned a lot of plaudits for getting Google’s spending under control in the late 2010s, but what seems clear in retrospect is that the $52.5 billion that Google spent in capex in 2024 was too little. Ashkenazi’s calls, meanwhile, have repeatedly reiterated that Google Cloud in particular is supply constrained, and the company has now surprised investors twice in six months with the scale of its capex plans.This is, in my opinion, incredibly bullish for Google. Go back to the disruption lens: the exact avenue from which you would expect management resistance to a disruptive innovation to flow is the CFO office; whether the driver in these more aggressive investments was the CFO change or not, there does seem to have been a major shift in mindset in terms of the company’s willingness to lean into AI, particularly for a segment (Google Cloud) that, even in the best case scenarios, is significantly lower margin than the company’s core business.What is interesting about that margin point, however, is that it too is another reason to be bullish on Google’s prospects. Google is the only company with an at-scale ASIC alternative to Nvidia GPUs, which should give them a meaningful cost advantage; to that end, to the extent that cloud compute becomes commoditized is the extent to which Google actually has a margin advantage. This is, to be sure, a bit weird: Porat gained those plaudits because there was so much waste in Google to cut, which was downstream of the company’s amazing monopoly margins in Search, which hardly seems like the recipe for a structural cost advantage, but here we are!More broadly, the way in which Google seems to have flipped the switch in terms of going all in on AI, along with Meta’s spending on AI talent, really does strongly suggest that AI is, in the end, a sustaining technology that favors the incumbents most of all. Both see a line of site to new revenue streams and, critically, both can fund AI from profits, not speculative investments or debt. And, of course, both have distribution (including Search). Sometimes the empire strikes back!Search NotesSome additional notes from Google’s earnings call:Search Monetization:Pichai and Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler worked extremely hard tonotanswer questions about search volume and especially search click-through rates, which was telling in its own right; the company’s 10-Q isn’t out yet, so I don’t have the specific numbers for paid clicks, although Schindler did say on the earnings call:And on your paid click question, look, to be very clear, I think we said this before, we manage the business to drive great outcomes for our users and an attractive ROI for our advertisers. We actually don’t manage to pay clicks and CPC targets. Some of the product and policy changes we make actually drive better monetization at the expense of paid clicks. You will actually see in the 10-Q, pay clicks were up 4% year-on-year. But a number of factors affect these metrics from quarter-to-quarter, such as a few examples, advertiser spending, product changes, policy changes, user engagement and so on. So it’s really important when it comes to pay clicks and CPCs to avoid drawing like overly broad conclusions solely based on these metrics.I have to say, the more that management tells me to not pay attention to paid click rates, the more I want to pay attention! Regardless, once again, the fact that pay clicks were up 4% and search revenue was up 12% makes it clear that Search growth is primarily being driven by higher prices.AI Overviews:To that end, there is another question that occurred to me. Specifically, management keeps noting that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate as regular search; here was Schindler’s latest articulation of that point:Look, specifically referring to AI Overviews, if I understood your question correctly, as Sundar mentioned it, they continue to drive higher satisfaction. They continue to drive higher search usage. They’re scaling up very nicely and they’re actually working for our entire user base now scaled to over 2 billion users in over 200 countries. So very happy with this development. But when it comes specifically to the monetization of it, we talked about it before. We see monetization at approximately the same rate, which gives us actually a really strong base on which we can then innovate and drive actually a more innovative and new and next-generation ad formats. That’s how we look at it at this moment in time.Given the fact that the vast majority of Google searches don’t monetize at all, is it possible that when the company says that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate that that rate is ~$0?Gemini Usage:From Pichai’s opening remarks:The Gemini app now has more than 450 million monthly active users, and we continue to see strong growth in engagement with daily requests growing over 50% from Q1.That’s a monthly active user number, not a daily one, but I have to admit 450 million is a lot bigger than I expected, particularly given that Gemini was separated from the Google Search app. I don’t have a strong take on this, other than to note that I was surprised.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.30: Rumors of Google’s Demise…DateFriday, July 25, 2025How Google Is Challenging AWSDateWednesday, November 30, 2016Hey! You! Get off of Google’s cloud!DateSaturday, March 23, 2013←Netflix Earnings, Apple and F12025.30: Rumors of Google’s Demise…→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Google Earnings, Google Flips the Switch on Cloud, Search NotesThursday, July 24, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Thursday! On Tuesday I totally forgot to warn you that I was going to delay this week’s third Update by a day; I debated sending out an extra email yesterday to let you know, but I figured it’s summer and we could all roll with it. Anyhow, here I am — and thanks for your understanding.Last year I interviewedRescale CEO Joris Poortwhere we touched on his work using computers to design the wing for the Boeing Dreamliner; Jon over atAsianometryhasa new video explaining more about how computers helped build the 787.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Alphabet Inc. said demand for artificial intelligence products boosted quarterly sales, and now requires an extreme increase in capital spending — heightening pressure on the company to justify the cost of keeping up in the AI race.Google’s parent company said 2025 capital expenditures will be $85 billion, or $10 billion greater than an earlier forecast. Although Alphabet beat expectations for second-quarter revenue and profit, its stock initially sank in after-hours trading, then rebounded after Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai explained that the investments are necessary in order to keep up with customer needs. “Our AI infrastructure investments are crucial to meeting the growth in demand from cloud customers,” he said on a call Wednesday following the report.As Microsoft Corp., startup OpenAI, Meta Platforms Inc. and others continue to pour money into AI, Alphabet has little choice but to follow suit, analysts said. The race is particularly urgent for Google: competitors are building chatbots that may eventually appeal to consumers more than its flagship search product. “Google’s hand is forced by OpenAI to spend tremendously on AI’s infrastructure and applications,” said Nikhil Lai, an analyst at Forrester.I get this framing, I really do. I’ve repeatedly laid out the theoretical case for why AI is potentially disruptive to Google, starting with 2023’sAI and the Big Five. It remains something to monitor.Once again, however, I have to come to Google’s defense: all available metrics suggest that the company is doing quite well. Indeed, I would go further: you can make the case that the company’s biggest mistake is not going harder!Google Flips the Switch on CloudBy “once again”, I’m referring to what I wrote after Google’s 4Q 2024 earnings and their announcement that they would be spending $75 billion on capex this year; fromFebruary 2025, when Google Cloud’s revenue numbers disappointed:Notice how those numbers differ from Q3 2023, the last time Google Cloud disappointed: in that quarter revenue growth disappointed and margin decreased, which suggests that Google had too much capacity for the revenue it earned, which is to say that the problem was a lack of demand.In Q4 2024, however, the opposite happened: [Google Cloud] revenue growth was a disappointment, but margins still rose; this suggests that the problem was a lack of supply in terms of infrastructure, and that is indeed exactly what management said on the earnings call…And now we’re back to the capex expansion: yes, that is a big increase, but there is at least one area of Google’s business — and it happens to be the area of Google’s business that gives outsiders the most visibility into AI demand — that doesn’t have enough.Look at the cloud numbers now:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Q2 2025$13,62432%$2,82621%Last quarter Google Cloud Platform increased growth and significantly increased margin, and, according to CFO Anat Ashkenazion the earnings call, it is still supply constrained:In Cloud, as I mentioned, the demand for our products is high as evidenced by the continued revenue growth and the cloud backlog of $106 billion. While we have been working hard to increase capacity and have improved the pace of server deployment, we expect to remain in a tight demand supply environment going into 2026.Given this, investors should absolutely be cheering Google’s latest increase in capex, which is primarily for Google Cloud; from Ashkenazi’s prepared remarks:Given the strong demand for our cloud products and services, we now expect to invest approximately $85 billion in CapEx in 2025, up from a previous estimate of $75 billion. Our updated outlook reflects additional investment in servers, the timing of delivery of servers and an acceleration in the pace of data center construction, primarily to meet cloud customer demand.The challenge, Pichai cautioned in an answer to an analyst question, is that it takes a while for these investments to come on board:Sundar, can you just talk about how you’re thinking about your current access to compute even as you spend $10 billion more this year in CapEx, you also said that you’re still in a tight supply environment. So just trying to marry those?On the CapEx stuff, obviously, we are seeing strong momentum across our portfolio and especially in cloud. You are right. It’s a tight supply environment. And we are investing more to expand, but there is obviously a time delay between this additional investment will play out in future years. And so that’s why both of them are true at the same time. But we are planning ahead, and we are investing, but overall, it’s exciting to see the traction, particularly in cloud. I think the comprehensiveness of our AI portfolio breadth of our offerings, both providing our models on GPUs and TPUs for our customers. All of that has been really driving demand. And so we are investing to match up to it.In short, what seems clear is that Google made the exact mistake that Pichai explicitly said the company did not want to make a year ago; from theQ2 2024 earnings call:I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside.I’m always hesitant to delve too much into executive changes below the CEO level, but it is interesting that that earnings call was Ruth Porat’s last one as CFO; Porat earned a lot of plaudits for getting Google’s spending under control in the late 2010s, but what seems clear in retrospect is that the $52.5 billion that Google spent in capex in 2024 was too little. Ashkenazi’s calls, meanwhile, have repeatedly reiterated that Google Cloud in particular is supply constrained, and the company has now surprised investors twice in six months with the scale of its capex plans.This is, in my opinion, incredibly bullish for Google. Go back to the disruption lens: the exact avenue from which you would expect management resistance to a disruptive innovation to flow is the CFO office; whether the driver in these more aggressive investments was the CFO change or not, there does seem to have been a major shift in mindset in terms of the company’s willingness to lean into AI, particularly for a segment (Google Cloud) that, even in the best case scenarios, is significantly lower margin than the company’s core business.What is interesting about that margin point, however, is that it too is another reason to be bullish on Google’s prospects. Google is the only company with an at-scale ASIC alternative to Nvidia GPUs, which should give them a meaningful cost advantage; to that end, to the extent that cloud compute becomes commoditized is the extent to which Google actually has a margin advantage. This is, to be sure, a bit weird: Porat gained those plaudits because there was so much waste in Google to cut, which was downstream of the company’s amazing monopoly margins in Search, which hardly seems like the recipe for a structural cost advantage, but here we are!More broadly, the way in which Google seems to have flipped the switch in terms of going all in on AI, along with Meta’s spending on AI talent, really does strongly suggest that AI is, in the end, a sustaining technology that favors the incumbents most of all. Both see a line of site to new revenue streams and, critically, both can fund AI from profits, not speculative investments or debt. And, of course, both have distribution (including Search). Sometimes the empire strikes back!Search NotesSome additional notes from Google’s earnings call:Search Monetization:Pichai and Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler worked extremely hard tonotanswer questions about search volume and especially search click-through rates, which was telling in its own right; the company’s 10-Q isn’t out yet, so I don’t have the specific numbers for paid clicks, although Schindler did say on the earnings call:And on your paid click question, look, to be very clear, I think we said this before, we manage the business to drive great outcomes for our users and an attractive ROI for our advertisers. We actually don’t manage to pay clicks and CPC targets. Some of the product and policy changes we make actually drive better monetization at the expense of paid clicks. You will actually see in the 10-Q, pay clicks were up 4% year-on-year. But a number of factors affect these metrics from quarter-to-quarter, such as a few examples, advertiser spending, product changes, policy changes, user engagement and so on. So it’s really important when it comes to pay clicks and CPCs to avoid drawing like overly broad conclusions solely based on these metrics.I have to say, the more that management tells me to not pay attention to paid click rates, the more I want to pay attention! Regardless, once again, the fact that pay clicks were up 4% and search revenue was up 12% makes it clear that Search growth is primarily being driven by higher prices.AI Overviews:To that end, there is another question that occurred to me. Specifically, management keeps noting that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate as regular search; here was Schindler’s latest articulation of that point:Look, specifically referring to AI Overviews, if I understood your question correctly, as Sundar mentioned it, they continue to drive higher satisfaction. They continue to drive higher search usage. They’re scaling up very nicely and they’re actually working for our entire user base now scaled to over 2 billion users in over 200 countries. So very happy with this development. But when it comes specifically to the monetization of it, we talked about it before. We see monetization at approximately the same rate, which gives us actually a really strong base on which we can then innovate and drive actually a more innovative and new and next-generation ad formats. That’s how we look at it at this moment in time.Given the fact that the vast majority of Google searches don’t monetize at all, is it possible that when the company says that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate that that rate is ~$0?Gemini Usage:From Pichai’s opening remarks:The Gemini app now has more than 450 million monthly active users, and we continue to see strong growth in engagement with daily requests growing over 50% from Q1.That’s a monthly active user number, not a daily one, but I have to admit 450 million is a lot bigger than I expected, particularly given that Gemini was separated from the Google Search app. I don’t have a strong take on this, other than to note that I was surprised.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.30: Rumors of Google’s Demise…DateFriday, July 25, 2025How Google Is Challenging AWSDateWednesday, November 30, 2016Hey! You! Get off of Google’s cloud!DateSaturday, March 23, 2013←Netflix Earnings, Apple and F12025.30: Rumors of Google’s Demise…→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Google Earnings, Google Flips the Switch on Cloud, Search NotesThursday, July 24, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Thursday! On Tuesday I totally forgot to warn you that I was going to delay this week’s third Update by a day; I debated sending out an extra email yesterday to let you know, but I figured it’s summer and we could all roll with it. Anyhow, here I am — and thanks for your understanding.Last year I interviewedRescale CEO Joris Poortwhere we touched on his work using computers to design the wing for the Boeing Dreamliner; Jon over atAsianometryhasa new video explaining more about how computers helped build the 787.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Alphabet Inc. said demand for artificial intelligence products boosted quarterly sales, and now requires an extreme increase in capital spending — heightening pressure on the company to justify the cost of keeping up in the AI race.Google’s parent company said 2025 capital expenditures will be $85 billion, or $10 billion greater than an earlier forecast. Although Alphabet beat expectations for second-quarter revenue and profit, its stock initially sank in after-hours trading, then rebounded after Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai explained that the investments are necessary in order to keep up with customer needs. “Our AI infrastructure investments are crucial to meeting the growth in demand from cloud customers,” he said on a call Wednesday following the report.As Microsoft Corp., startup OpenAI, Meta Platforms Inc. and others continue to pour money into AI, Alphabet has little choice but to follow suit, analysts said. The race is particularly urgent for Google: competitors are building chatbots that may eventually appeal to consumers more than its flagship search product. “Google’s hand is forced by OpenAI to spend tremendously on AI’s infrastructure and applications,” said Nikhil Lai, an analyst at Forrester.I get this framing, I really do. I’ve repeatedly laid out the theoretical case for why AI is potentially disruptive to Google, starting with 2023’sAI and the Big Five. It remains something to monitor.Once again, however, I have to come to Google’s defense: all available metrics suggest that the company is doing quite well. Indeed, I would go further: you can make the case that the company’s biggest mistake is not going harder!Google Flips the Switch on CloudBy “once again”, I’m referring to what I wrote after Google’s 4Q 2024 earnings and their announcement that they would be spending $75 billion on capex this year; fromFebruary 2025, when Google Cloud’s revenue numbers disappointed:Notice how those numbers differ from Q3 2023, the last time Google Cloud disappointed: in that quarter revenue growth disappointed and margin decreased, which suggests that Google had too much capacity for the revenue it earned, which is to say that the problem was a lack of demand.In Q4 2024, however, the opposite happened: [Google Cloud] revenue growth was a disappointment, but margins still rose; this suggests that the problem was a lack of supply in terms of infrastructure, and that is indeed exactly what management said on the earnings call…And now we’re back to the capex expansion: yes, that is a big increase, but there is at least one area of Google’s business — and it happens to be the area of Google’s business that gives outsiders the most visibility into AI demand — that doesn’t have enough.Look at the cloud numbers now:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Q2 2025$13,62432%$2,82621%Last quarter Google Cloud Platform increased growth and significantly increased margin, and, according to CFO Anat Ashkenazion the earnings call, it is still supply constrained:In Cloud, as I mentioned, the demand for our products is high as evidenced by the continued revenue growth and the cloud backlog of $106 billion. While we have been working hard to increase capacity and have improved the pace of server deployment, we expect to remain in a tight demand supply environment going into 2026.Given this, investors should absolutely be cheering Google’s latest increase in capex, which is primarily for Google Cloud; from Ashkenazi’s prepared remarks:Given the strong demand for our cloud products and services, we now expect to invest approximately $85 billion in CapEx in 2025, up from a previous estimate of $75 billion. Our updated outlook reflects additional investment in servers, the timing of delivery of servers and an acceleration in the pace of data center construction, primarily to meet cloud customer demand.The challenge, Pichai cautioned in an answer to an analyst question, is that it takes a while for these investments to come on board:Sundar, can you just talk about how you’re thinking about your current access to compute even as you spend $10 billion more this year in CapEx, you also said that you’re still in a tight supply environment. So just trying to marry those?On the CapEx stuff, obviously, we are seeing strong momentum across our portfolio and especially in cloud. You are right. It’s a tight supply environment. And we are investing more to expand, but there is obviously a time delay between this additional investment will play out in future years. And so that’s why both of them are true at the same time. But we are planning ahead, and we are investing, but overall, it’s exciting to see the traction, particularly in cloud. I think the comprehensiveness of our AI portfolio breadth of our offerings, both providing our models on GPUs and TPUs for our customers. All of that has been really driving demand. And so we are investing to match up to it.In short, what seems clear is that Google made the exact mistake that Pichai explicitly said the company did not want to make a year ago; from theQ2 2024 earnings call:I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside.I’m always hesitant to delve too much into executive changes below the CEO level, but it is interesting that that earnings call was Ruth Porat’s last one as CFO; Porat earned a lot of plaudits for getting Google’s spending under control in the late 2010s, but what seems clear in retrospect is that the $52.5 billion that Google spent in capex in 2024 was too little. Ashkenazi’s calls, meanwhile, have repeatedly reiterated that Google Cloud in particular is supply constrained, and the company has now surprised investors twice in six months with the scale of its capex plans.This is, in my opinion, incredibly bullish for Google. Go back to the disruption lens: the exact avenue from which you would expect management resistance to a disruptive innovation to flow is the CFO office; whether the driver in these more aggressive investments was the CFO change or not, there does seem to have been a major shift in mindset in terms of the company’s willingness to lean into AI, particularly for a segment (Google Cloud) that, even in the best case scenarios, is significantly lower margin than the company’s core business.What is interesting about that margin point, however, is that it too is another reason to be bullish on Google’s prospects. Google is the only company with an at-scale ASIC alternative to Nvidia GPUs, which should give them a meaningful cost advantage; to that end, to the extent that cloud compute becomes commoditized is the extent to which Google actually has a margin advantage. This is, to be sure, a bit weird: Porat gained those plaudits because there was so much waste in Google to cut, which was downstream of the company’s amazing monopoly margins in Search, which hardly seems like the recipe for a structural cost advantage, but here we are!More broadly, the way in which Google seems to have flipped the switch in terms of going all in on AI, along with Meta’s spending on AI talent, really does strongly suggest that AI is, in the end, a sustaining technology that favors the incumbents most of all. Both see a line of site to new revenue streams and, critically, both can fund AI from profits, not speculative investments or debt. And, of course, both have distribution (including Search). Sometimes the empire strikes back!Search NotesSome additional notes from Google’s earnings call:Search Monetization:Pichai and Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler worked extremely hard tonotanswer questions about search volume and especially search click-through rates, which was telling in its own right; the company’s 10-Q isn’t out yet, so I don’t have the specific numbers for paid clicks, although Schindler did say on the earnings call:And on your paid click question, look, to be very clear, I think we said this before, we manage the business to drive great outcomes for our users and an attractive ROI for our advertisers. We actually don’t manage to pay clicks and CPC targets. Some of the product and policy changes we make actually drive better monetization at the expense of paid clicks. You will actually see in the 10-Q, pay clicks were up 4% year-on-year. But a number of factors affect these metrics from quarter-to-quarter, such as a few examples, advertiser spending, product changes, policy changes, user engagement and so on. So it’s really important when it comes to pay clicks and CPCs to avoid drawing like overly broad conclusions solely based on these metrics.I have to say, the more that management tells me to not pay attention to paid click rates, the more I want to pay attention! Regardless, once again, the fact that pay clicks were up 4% and search revenue was up 12% makes it clear that Search growth is primarily being driven by higher prices.AI Overviews:To that end, there is another question that occurred to me. Specifically, management keeps noting that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate as regular search; here was Schindler’s latest articulation of that point:Look, specifically referring to AI Overviews, if I understood your question correctly, as Sundar mentioned it, they continue to drive higher satisfaction. They continue to drive higher search usage. They’re scaling up very nicely and they’re actually working for our entire user base now scaled to over 2 billion users in over 200 countries. So very happy with this development. But when it comes specifically to the monetization of it, we talked about it before. We see monetization at approximately the same rate, which gives us actually a really strong base on which we can then innovate and drive actually a more innovative and new and next-generation ad formats. That’s how we look at it at this moment in time.Given the fact that the vast majority of Google searches don’t monetize at all, is it possible that when the company says that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate that that rate is ~$0?Gemini Usage:From Pichai’s opening remarks:The Gemini app now has more than 450 million monthly active users, and we continue to see strong growth in engagement with daily requests growing over 50% from Q1.That’s a monthly active user number, not a daily one, but I have to admit 450 million is a lot bigger than I expected, particularly given that Gemini was separated from the Google Search app. I don’t have a strong take on this, other than to note that I was surprised.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.30: Rumors of Google’s Demise…DateFriday, July 25, 2025How Google Is Challenging AWSDateWednesday, November 30, 2016Hey! You! Get off of Google’s cloud!DateSaturday, March 23, 2013←Netflix Earnings, Apple and F12025.30: Rumors of Google’s Demise…→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Happy Thursday! On Tuesday I totally forgot to warn you that I was going to delay this week’s third Update by a day; I debated sending out an extra email yesterday to let you know, but I figured it’s summer and we could all roll with it. Anyhow, here I am — and thanks for your understanding.Last year I interviewedRescale CEO Joris Poortwhere we touched on his work using computers to design the wing for the Boeing Dreamliner; Jon over atAsianometryhasa new video explaining more about how computers helped build the 787.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Alphabet Inc. said demand for artificial intelligence products boosted quarterly sales, and now requires an extreme increase in capital spending — heightening pressure on the company to justify the cost of keeping up in the AI race.Google’s parent company said 2025 capital expenditures will be $85 billion, or $10 billion greater than an earlier forecast. Although Alphabet beat expectations for second-quarter revenue and profit, its stock initially sank in after-hours trading, then rebounded after Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai explained that the investments are necessary in order to keep up with customer needs. “Our AI infrastructure investments are crucial to meeting the growth in demand from cloud customers,” he said on a call Wednesday following the report.As Microsoft Corp., startup OpenAI, Meta Platforms Inc. and others continue to pour money into AI, Alphabet has little choice but to follow suit, analysts said. The race is particularly urgent for Google: competitors are building chatbots that may eventually appeal to consumers more than its flagship search product. “Google’s hand is forced by OpenAI to spend tremendously on AI’s infrastructure and applications,” said Nikhil Lai, an analyst at Forrester.I get this framing, I really do. I’ve repeatedly laid out the theoretical case for why AI is potentially disruptive to Google, starting with 2023’sAI and the Big Five. It remains something to monitor.Once again, however, I have to come to Google’s defense: all available metrics suggest that the company is doing quite well. Indeed, I would go further: you can make the case that the company’s biggest mistake is not going harder!Google Flips the Switch on CloudBy “once again”, I’m referring to what I wrote after Google’s 4Q 2024 earnings and their announcement that they would be spending $75 billion on capex this year; fromFebruary 2025, when Google Cloud’s revenue numbers disappointed:Notice how those numbers differ from Q3 2023, the last time Google Cloud disappointed: in that quarter revenue growth disappointed and margin decreased, which suggests that Google had too much capacity for the revenue it earned, which is to say that the problem was a lack of demand.In Q4 2024, however, the opposite happened: [Google Cloud] revenue growth was a disappointment, but margins still rose; this suggests that the problem was a lack of supply in terms of infrastructure, and that is indeed exactly what management said on the earnings call…And now we’re back to the capex expansion: yes, that is a big increase, but there is at least one area of Google’s business — and it happens to be the area of Google’s business that gives outsiders the most visibility into AI demand — that doesn’t have enough.Look at the cloud numbers now:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Q2 2025$13,62432%$2,82621%Last quarter Google Cloud Platform increased growth and significantly increased margin, and, according to CFO Anat Ashkenazion the earnings call, it is still supply constrained:In Cloud, as I mentioned, the demand for our products is high as evidenced by the continued revenue growth and the cloud backlog of $106 billion. While we have been working hard to increase capacity and have improved the pace of server deployment, we expect to remain in a tight demand supply environment going into 2026.Given this, investors should absolutely be cheering Google’s latest increase in capex, which is primarily for Google Cloud; from Ashkenazi’s prepared remarks:Given the strong demand for our cloud products and services, we now expect to invest approximately $85 billion in CapEx in 2025, up from a previous estimate of $75 billion. Our updated outlook reflects additional investment in servers, the timing of delivery of servers and an acceleration in the pace of data center construction, primarily to meet cloud customer demand.The challenge, Pichai cautioned in an answer to an analyst question, is that it takes a while for these investments to come on board:Sundar, can you just talk about how you’re thinking about your current access to compute even as you spend $10 billion more this year in CapEx, you also said that you’re still in a tight supply environment. So just trying to marry those?On the CapEx stuff, obviously, we are seeing strong momentum across our portfolio and especially in cloud. You are right. It’s a tight supply environment. And we are investing more to expand, but there is obviously a time delay between this additional investment will play out in future years. And so that’s why both of them are true at the same time. But we are planning ahead, and we are investing, but overall, it’s exciting to see the traction, particularly in cloud. I think the comprehensiveness of our AI portfolio breadth of our offerings, both providing our models on GPUs and TPUs for our customers. All of that has been really driving demand. And so we are investing to match up to it.In short, what seems clear is that Google made the exact mistake that Pichai explicitly said the company did not want to make a year ago; from theQ2 2024 earnings call:I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside.I’m always hesitant to delve too much into executive changes below the CEO level, but it is interesting that that earnings call was Ruth Porat’s last one as CFO; Porat earned a lot of plaudits for getting Google’s spending under control in the late 2010s, but what seems clear in retrospect is that the $52.5 billion that Google spent in capex in 2024 was too little. Ashkenazi’s calls, meanwhile, have repeatedly reiterated that Google Cloud in particular is supply constrained, and the company has now surprised investors twice in six months with the scale of its capex plans.This is, in my opinion, incredibly bullish for Google. Go back to the disruption lens: the exact avenue from which you would expect management resistance to a disruptive innovation to flow is the CFO office; whether the driver in these more aggressive investments was the CFO change or not, there does seem to have been a major shift in mindset in terms of the company’s willingness to lean into AI, particularly for a segment (Google Cloud) that, even in the best case scenarios, is significantly lower margin than the company’s core business.What is interesting about that margin point, however, is that it too is another reason to be bullish on Google’s prospects. Google is the only company with an at-scale ASIC alternative to Nvidia GPUs, which should give them a meaningful cost advantage; to that end, to the extent that cloud compute becomes commoditized is the extent to which Google actually has a margin advantage. This is, to be sure, a bit weird: Porat gained those plaudits because there was so much waste in Google to cut, which was downstream of the company’s amazing monopoly margins in Search, which hardly seems like the recipe for a structural cost advantage, but here we are!More broadly, the way in which Google seems to have flipped the switch in terms of going all in on AI, along with Meta’s spending on AI talent, really does strongly suggest that AI is, in the end, a sustaining technology that favors the incumbents most of all. Both see a line of site to new revenue streams and, critically, both can fund AI from profits, not speculative investments or debt. And, of course, both have distribution (including Search). Sometimes the empire strikes back!Search NotesSome additional notes from Google’s earnings call:Search Monetization:Pichai and Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler worked extremely hard tonotanswer questions about search volume and especially search click-through rates, which was telling in its own right; the company’s 10-Q isn’t out yet, so I don’t have the specific numbers for paid clicks, although Schindler did say on the earnings call:And on your paid click question, look, to be very clear, I think we said this before, we manage the business to drive great outcomes for our users and an attractive ROI for our advertisers. We actually don’t manage to pay clicks and CPC targets. Some of the product and policy changes we make actually drive better monetization at the expense of paid clicks. You will actually see in the 10-Q, pay clicks were up 4% year-on-year. But a number of factors affect these metrics from quarter-to-quarter, such as a few examples, advertiser spending, product changes, policy changes, user engagement and so on. So it’s really important when it comes to pay clicks and CPCs to avoid drawing like overly broad conclusions solely based on these metrics.I have to say, the more that management tells me to not pay attention to paid click rates, the more I want to pay attention! Regardless, once again, the fact that pay clicks were up 4% and search revenue was up 12% makes it clear that Search growth is primarily being driven by higher prices.AI Overviews:To that end, there is another question that occurred to me. Specifically, management keeps noting that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate as regular search; here was Schindler’s latest articulation of that point:Look, specifically referring to AI Overviews, if I understood your question correctly, as Sundar mentioned it, they continue to drive higher satisfaction. They continue to drive higher search usage. They’re scaling up very nicely and they’re actually working for our entire user base now scaled to over 2 billion users in over 200 countries. So very happy with this development. But when it comes specifically to the monetization of it, we talked about it before. We see monetization at approximately the same rate, which gives us actually a really strong base on which we can then innovate and drive actually a more innovative and new and next-generation ad formats. That’s how we look at it at this moment in time.Given the fact that the vast majority of Google searches don’t monetize at all, is it possible that when the company says that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate that that rate is ~$0?Gemini Usage:From Pichai’s opening remarks:The Gemini app now has more than 450 million monthly active users, and we continue to see strong growth in engagement with daily requests growing over 50% from Q1.That’s a monthly active user number, not a daily one, but I have to admit 450 million is a lot bigger than I expected, particularly given that Gemini was separated from the Google Search app. I don’t have a strong take on this, other than to note that I was surprised.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Happy Thursday! On Tuesday I totally forgot to warn you that I was going to delay this week’s third Update by a day; I debated sending out an extra email yesterday to let you know, but I figured it’s summer and we could all roll with it. Anyhow, here I am — and thanks for your understanding. Last year I interviewedRescale CEO Joris Poortwhere we touched on his work using computers to design the wing for the Boeing Dreamliner; Jon over atAsianometryhasa new video explaining more about how computers helped build the 787. Alphabet Inc. said demand for artificial intelligence products boosted quarterly sales, and now requires an extreme increase in capital spending — heightening pressure on the company to justify the cost of keeping up in the AI race. Google’s parent company said 2025 capital expenditures will be $85 billion, or $10 billion greater than an earlier forecast. Although Alphabet beat expectations for second-quarter revenue and profit, its stock initially sank in after-hours trading, then rebounded after Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai explained that the investments are necessary in order to keep up with customer needs. “Our AI infrastructure investments are crucial to meeting the growth in demand from cloud customers,” he said on a call Wednesday following the report. As Microsoft Corp., startup OpenAI, Meta Platforms Inc. and others continue to pour money into AI, Alphabet has little choice but to follow suit, analysts said. The race is particularly urgent for Google: competitors are building chatbots that may eventually appeal to consumers more than its flagship search product. “Google’s hand is forced by OpenAI to spend tremendously on AI’s infrastructure and applications,” said Nikhil Lai, an analyst at Forrester. Once again, however, I have to come to Google’s defense: all available metrics suggest that the company is doing quite well. Indeed, I would go further: you can make the case that the company’s biggest mistake is not going harder! By “once again”, I’m referring to what I wrote after Google’s 4Q 2024 earnings and their announcement that they would be spending $75 billion on capex this year; fromFebruary 2025, when Google Cloud’s revenue numbers disappointed: Notice how those numbers differ from Q3 2023, the last time Google Cloud disappointed: in that quarter revenue growth disappointed and margin decreased, which suggests that Google had too much capacity for the revenue it earned, which is to say that the problem was a lack of demand. In Q4 2024, however, the opposite happened: [Google Cloud] revenue growth was a disappointment, but margins still rose; this suggests that the problem was a lack of supply in terms of infrastructure, and that is indeed exactly what management said on the earnings call…And now we’re back to the capex expansion: yes, that is a big increase, but there is at least one area of Google’s business — and it happens to be the area of Google’s business that gives outsiders the most visibility into AI demand — that doesn’t have enough. In Cloud, as I mentioned, the demand for our products is high as evidenced by the continued revenue growth and the cloud backlog of $106 billion. While we have been working hard to increase capacity and have improved the pace of server deployment, we expect to remain in a tight demand supply environment going into 2026. Given the strong demand for our cloud products and services, we now expect to invest approximately $85 billion in CapEx in 2025, up from a previous estimate of $75 billion. Our updated outlook reflects additional investment in servers, the timing of delivery of servers and an acceleration in the pace of data center construction, primarily to meet cloud customer demand. Sundar, can you just talk about how you’re thinking about your current access to compute even as you spend $10 billion more this year in CapEx, you also said that you’re still in a tight supply environment. So just trying to marry those? On the CapEx stuff, obviously, we are seeing strong momentum across our portfolio and especially in cloud. You are right. It’s a tight supply environment. And we are investing more to expand, but there is obviously a time delay between this additional investment will play out in future years. And so that’s why both of them are true at the same time. But we are planning ahead, and we are investing, but overall, it’s exciting to see the traction, particularly in cloud. I think the comprehensiveness of our AI portfolio breadth of our offerings, both providing our models on GPUs and TPUs for our customers. All of that has been really driving demand. And so we are investing to match up to it. I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside. I’m always hesitant to delve too much into executive changes below the CEO level, but it is interesting that that earnings call was Ruth Porat’s last one as CFO; Porat earned a lot of plaudits for getting Google’s spending under control in the late 2010s, but what seems clear in retrospect is that the $52.5 billion that Google spent in capex in 2024 was too little. Ashkenazi’s calls, meanwhile, have repeatedly reiterated that Google Cloud in particular is supply constrained, and the company has now surprised investors twice in six months with the scale of its capex plans. This is, in my opinion, incredibly bullish for Google. Go back to the disruption lens: the exact avenue from which you would expect management resistance to a disruptive innovation to flow is the CFO office; whether the driver in these more aggressive investments was the CFO change or not, there does seem to have been a major shift in mindset in terms of the company’s willingness to lean into AI, particularly for a segment (Google Cloud) that, even in the best case scenarios, is significantly lower margin than the company’s core business. What is interesting about that margin point, however, is that it too is another reason to be bullish on Google’s prospects. Google is the only company with an at-scale ASIC alternative to Nvidia GPUs, which should give them a meaningful cost advantage; to that end, to the extent that cloud compute becomes commoditized is the extent to which Google actually has a margin advantage. This is, to be sure, a bit weird: Porat gained those plaudits because there was so much waste in Google to cut, which was downstream of the company’s amazing monopoly margins in Search, which hardly seems like the recipe for a structural cost advantage, but here we are! More broadly, the way in which Google seems to have flipped the switch in terms of going all in on AI, along with Meta’s spending on AI talent, really does strongly suggest that AI is, in the end, a sustaining technology that favors the incumbents most of all. Both see a line of site to new revenue streams and, critically, both can fund AI from profits, not speculative investments or debt. And, of course, both have distribution (including Search). Sometimes the empire strikes back! Pichai and Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler worked extremely hard tonotanswer questions about search volume and especially search click-through rates, which was telling in its own right; the company’s 10-Q isn’t out yet, so I don’t have the specific numbers for paid clicks, although Schindler did say on the earnings call: And on your paid click question, look, to be very clear, I think we said this before, we manage the business to drive great outcomes for our users and an attractive ROI for our advertisers. We actually don’t manage to pay clicks and CPC targets. Some of the product and policy changes we make actually drive better monetization at the expense of paid clicks. You will actually see in the 10-Q, pay clicks were up 4% year-on-year. But a number of factors affect these metrics from quarter-to-quarter, such as a few examples, advertiser spending, product changes, policy changes, user engagement and so on. So it’s really important when it comes to pay clicks and CPCs to avoid drawing like overly broad conclusions solely based on these metrics. I have to say, the more that management tells me to not pay attention to paid click rates, the more I want to pay attention! Regardless, once again, the fact that pay clicks were up 4% and search revenue was up 12% makes it clear that Search growth is primarily being driven by higher prices. To that end, there is another question that occurred to me. Specifically, management keeps noting that AI Overviews monetize at the same rate as regular search; here was Schindler’s latest articulation of that point: Look, specifically referring to AI Overviews, if I understood your question correctly, as Sundar mentioned it, they continue to drive higher satisfaction. They continue to drive higher search usage. They’re scaling up very nicely and they’re actually working for our entire user base now scaled to over 2 billion users in over 200 countries. So very happy with this development. But when it comes specifically to the monetization of it, we talked about it before. We see monetization at approximately the same rate, which gives us actually a really strong base on which we can then innovate and drive actually a more innovative and new and next-generation ad formats. That’s how we look at it at this moment in time. That’s a monthly active user number, not a daily one, but I have to admit 450 million is a lot bigger than I expected, particularly given that Gemini was separated from the Google Search app. I don’t have a strong take on this, other than to note that I was surprised. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025