# [PODCAST] What happened to U.S. farmers during the last trade war

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/05/14/1251284848/american-farmers-trade-war-tariffs-crops-commodity-credit-corporation
**Atlas ID**: 229446
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.837895

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop What happened to American farmers during the last trade war  : Planet MoneyThe U.S. exports billions of dollars worth of agricultural products each year — things like soybeans, corn and pork. And over the last month, these exports have been caught up in a trade war.U.S. farmers have been collateral damage in a trade war before. In 2018, President Trump put tariffs on a bunch of Chinese products including flatscreen TVs, medical devices and batteries. But China matched those tariffs with their own retaliatory tariffs. They put tariffs on a lot of U.S. agricultural products they'd been buying, like soybeans, sorghum, and livestock. That choice looked strategic. Hitting these products with tariffs hurt Trump's voter base and might help China in a negotiation. And in some cases, China could find affordable alternative options from other countries.Today on the show: what happened in 2018, how the government prevented some U.S. farms from going bankrupt, and what was lost even after the trade war ended.This episode was produced by Sylvie Douglis and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Robert Rodriguez and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWhat happened to U.S. farmers during the last trade warMay 14, 20256:45 PM ETByAmanda Aronczyk,Jeff Guo,Jess Jiang,Sylvie DouglisWhat happened to U.S. farmers during the last trade warListen·25:3025:30TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251284848/1269313365" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageLaVon and Craig Griffieon on their farm near Ankeny, Iowa.Grant Gerlock/for NPRhide captiontoggle captionGrant Gerlock/for NPRLaVon and Craig Griffieon on their farm near Ankeny, Iowa.Grant Gerlock/for NPRThe U.S. exports billions of dollars worth of agricultural products each year — things like soybeans, corn and pork. And over the last month, these exports have been caught up in a trade war and subject to enormous retaliatory tariffs.U.S. farmers have been collateral damage in a trade war before. In 2018, President Trump put tariffs on a bunch of Chinese products including flatscreen TVs, medical devices and batteries. The idea was that the tariffs would make these Chinese products more expensive so people in the U.S. would buy fewer of them and maybe buy more American goods instead.But China matched those tariffs with retaliatory tariffs of their own. They put tariffs on a lot of U.S. agricultural products they'd been buying, like soybeans, sorghum, and livestock. That choice looked strategic. Hitting these products with tariffs hurt Trump's voter base and might help China in a negotiation. And in some cases, China could find affordable alternative options from other countries.Today on the show, what happened in 2018, how the government stepped in to prevent U.S. farms from going bankrupt, and what was lost even after the trade war ended.This episode was produced by Sylvie Douglis and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Robert Rodriguez and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Down the Rabbit Hole," "Make Mine a Double," and "Sorority."Sponsor Messagecommodity credit corporationsoybean farmersU.S.-China tradetrade warTariffsfarmingFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor What happened to U.S. farmers during the last trade warListen·25:3025:30TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251284848/1269313365" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript What happened to U.S. farmers during the last trade warListen·25:3025:30TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251284848/1269313365" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251284848/1269313365" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageLaVon and Craig Griffieon on their farm near Ankeny, Iowa.Grant Gerlock/for NPRhide captiontoggle captionGrant Gerlock/for NPRLaVon and Craig Griffieon on their farm near Ankeny, Iowa.Grant Gerlock/for NPRThe U.S. exports billions of dollars worth of agricultural products each year — things like soybeans, corn and pork. And over the last month, these exports have been caught up in a trade war and subject to enormous retaliatory tariffs.U.S. farmers have been collateral damage in a trade war before. In 2018, President Trump put tariffs on a bunch of Chinese products including flatscreen TVs, medical devices and batteries. The idea was that the tariffs would make these Chinese products more expensive so people in the U.S. would buy fewer of them and maybe buy more American goods instead.But China matched those tariffs with retaliatory tariffs of their own. They put tariffs on a lot of U.S. agricultural products they'd been buying, like soybeans, sorghum, and livestock. That choice looked strategic. Hitting these products with tariffs hurt Trump's voter base and might help China in a negotiation. And in some cases, China could find affordable alternative options from other countries.Today on the show, what happened in 2018, how the government stepped in to prevent U.S. farms from going bankrupt, and what was lost even after the trade war ended.This episode was produced by Sylvie Douglis and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Robert Rodriguez and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Down the Rabbit Hole," "Make Mine a Double," and "Sorority."Sponsor Message Enlarge this imageLaVon and Craig Griffieon on their farm near Ankeny, Iowa.Grant Gerlock/for NPRhide captiontoggle captionGrant Gerlock/for NPRLaVon and Craig Griffieon on their farm near Ankeny, Iowa.Grant Gerlock/for NPR The U.S. exports billions of dollars worth of agricultural products each year — things like soybeans, corn and pork. And over the last month, these exports have been caught up in a trade war and subject to enormous retaliatory tariffs.U.S. farmers have been collateral damage in a trade war before. In 2018, President Trump put tariffs on a bunch of Chinese products including flatscreen TVs, medical devices and batteries. The idea was that the tariffs would make these Chinese products more expensive so people in the U.S. would buy fewer of them and maybe buy more American goods instead.But China matched those tariffs with retaliatory tariffs of their own. They put tariffs on a lot of U.S. agricultural products they'd been buying, like soybeans, sorghum, and livestock. That choice looked strategic. Hitting these products with tariffs hurt Trump's voter base and might help China in a negotiation. And in some cases, China could find affordable alternative options from other countries.Today on the show, what happened in 2018, how the government stepped in to prevent U.S. farms from going bankrupt, and what was lost even after the trade war ended.This episode was produced by Sylvie Douglis and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Robert Rodriguez and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Down the Rabbit Hole," "Make Mine a Double," and "Sorority." Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra