# [PODCAST] Meow Money Meow Problems

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/02/22/1158865140/stray-cats-dixfield-maine-trust-inheritance-will
**Atlas ID**: 229509
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.849511

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How the cats of Dixfield, Maine came into a fortune : Planet MoneyMore than 20 years ago, something unusual happened in the small town of Dixfield, Maine. A lady named Barbara Thorpe had left almost all of her money—$200,000—to benefit the cats of her hometown. When Barbara died in 2002, those cats suddenly got very, very rich. And that is when all the trouble began.Barbara's gift set off a sprawling legal battle that drew in a crew of crusading cat ladies, and eventually, the town of Dixfield itself. It made national news. But after all these years, no one seemed to know where that money had ended up. Did the Dixfield cat fortune just...vanish?In this episode, host Jeff Guo travels to Maine to track down the money. To figure out how Barbara's plans went awry. And to understand something about this strange form of economic immortality called a charitable trust.This episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Dave Blanchard. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Sally Helm edited the show and Sierra Juarez checked the facts. Jess Jiang is Planet Money's acting Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkHow the cats of Dixfield, Maine came into a fortune — and almost lost itFebruary 24, 20238:18 PM ETByJeff Guo,Willa Rubin,Sally HelmHow the cats of Dixfield, Maine came into a fortune — and almost lost itListen·27:2027:20TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158865140/1198959581" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageHobo is one of the eleven cats who lives with Brenda Jarvis, the chief cat lady of Dixfield, Maine.Willa Rubin/NPRhide captiontoggle captionWilla Rubin/NPRHobo is one of the eleven cats who lives with Brenda Jarvis, the chief cat lady of Dixfield, Maine.Willa Rubin/NPRMore than 20 years ago, something unusual happened in the small town of Dixfield, Maine. A lady named Barbara Thorpe had left almost all of her money—$200,000—to benefit the cats of her hometown. When Barbara died in 2002, those cats suddenly got very, very rich. And that is when all the trouble began.Enlarge this imageBrenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJeff Guo/NPRBrenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPRBarbara's gift set off a sprawling legal battle that drew in a crew of crusading cat ladies, and eventually, the town of Dixfield itself. It made national news. But after all these years, no one seemed to know where that money had ended up. Did the Dixfield cat fortune just...vanish?In this episode, host Jeff Guo travels to Maine to track down the money. To figure out how Barbara's plans went awry. And to understand something about this strange form of economic immortality called a charitable trust.Sponsor MessageThis episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Dave Blanchard. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Sally Helm edited the show and Sierra Juarez checked the facts. Jess Jiang is Planet Money's acting Executive Producer.Enlarge this imageHost Jeff Guo had to interview many, many cats for this story ... all in the name of journalism!Willa Rubin/NPRhide captiontoggle captionWilla Rubin/NPRHost Jeff Guo had to interview many, many cats for this story ... all in the name of journalism!Willa Rubin/NPRHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "A Peculiar Investigation" "Benin Bop" and "Tropical Heat."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor How the cats of Dixfield, Maine came into a fortune — and almost lost itListen·27:2027:20TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158865140/1198959581" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript How the cats of Dixfield, Maine came into a fortune — and almost lost itListen·27:2027:20TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158865140/1198959581" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158865140/1198959581" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageHobo is one of the eleven cats who lives with Brenda Jarvis, the chief cat lady of Dixfield, Maine.Willa Rubin/NPRhide captiontoggle captionWilla Rubin/NPRHobo is one of the eleven cats who lives with Brenda Jarvis, the chief cat lady of Dixfield, Maine.Willa Rubin/NPRMore than 20 years ago, something unusual happened in the small town of Dixfield, Maine. A lady named Barbara Thorpe had left almost all of her money—$200,000—to benefit the cats of her hometown. When Barbara died in 2002, those cats suddenly got very, very rich. And that is when all the trouble began.Enlarge this imageBrenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJeff Guo/NPRBrenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPRBarbara's gift set off a sprawling legal battle that drew in a crew of crusading cat ladies, and eventually, the town of Dixfield itself. It made national news. But after all these years, no one seemed to know where that money had ended up. Did the Dixfield cat fortune just...vanish?In this episode, host Jeff Guo travels to Maine to track down the money. To figure out how Barbara's plans went awry. And to understand something about this strange form of economic immortality called a charitable trust.Sponsor MessageThis episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Dave Blanchard. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Sally Helm edited the show and Sierra Juarez checked the facts. Jess Jiang is Planet Money's acting Executive Producer.Enlarge this imageHost Jeff Guo had to interview many, many cats for this story ... all in the name of journalism!Willa Rubin/NPRhide captiontoggle captionWilla Rubin/NPRHost Jeff Guo had to interview many, many cats for this story ... all in the name of journalism!Willa Rubin/NPRHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "A Peculiar Investigation" "Benin Bop" and "Tropical Heat." Enlarge this imageHobo is one of the eleven cats who lives with Brenda Jarvis, the chief cat lady of Dixfield, Maine.Willa Rubin/NPRhide captiontoggle captionWilla Rubin/NPRHobo is one of the eleven cats who lives with Brenda Jarvis, the chief cat lady of Dixfield, Maine.Willa Rubin/NPR More than 20 years ago, something unusual happened in the small town of Dixfield, Maine. A lady named Barbara Thorpe had left almost all of her money—$200,000—to benefit the cats of her hometown. When Barbara died in 2002, those cats suddenly got very, very rich. And that is when all the trouble began. Enlarge this imageBrenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJeff Guo/NPRBrenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPR Brenda Jarvis feeds three of her eleven cats. She's downsizing—at the height of her cat lady life, she was taking care of dozens and dozens of the town's strays.Jeff Guo/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJeff Guo/NPR Barbara's gift set off a sprawling legal battle that drew in a crew of crusading cat ladies, and eventually, the town of Dixfield itself. It made national news. But after all these years, no one seemed to know where that money had ended up. Did the Dixfield cat fortune just...vanish? In this episode, host Jeff Guo travels to Maine to track down the money. To figure out how Barbara's plans went awry. And to understand something about this strange form of economic immortality called a charitable trust. This episode was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Dave Blanchard. It was engineered by Josh Newell. Sally Helm edited the show and Sierra Juarez checked the facts. Jess Jiang is Planet Money's acting Executive Producer. Enlarge this imageHost Jeff Guo had to interview many, many cats for this story ... all in the name of journalism!Willa Rubin/NPRhide captiontoggle captionWilla Rubin/NPRHost Jeff Guo had to interview many, many cats for this story ... all in the name of journalism!Willa Rubin/NPR Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra