# [PODCAST] Meta Earnings; Meta, AI, and ATT; Meta's New Playbook

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/meta-earnings-meta-ai-and-att-metas-new-playbook/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.VQgSnMVhsGnEyy6LwMA3eqqwMFOl-PxlAQCa6B7-5wbh2qicYKq6YEHZr0JquF_rQ1P7Psy9LDWLp-tIZRLTrZnft2OK83UMfpH5K7kC7nCYMtk8NLKmlwBrIXL58Z0yKPM8WrsuWAfVgWAVm7BAyJQi03OVIi4OusXfTGNV6syZEftzmEdhLJK-Jk-gFtnwoOZdGZOsWXU-eH4v6suAi7CpZuQpzouxo3H4yHNebuE0MmaiHB-YUbk_fvqZDWbVbc5KeLC_Wv7NW8odO-bnKuNCQQvgaw4HESFA2u5_2dh6bvrpElo1Cld5KsfeIsPSvYhia-OBW5R3-2QuSN18ng
**Atlas ID**: 229810
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.004057

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMeta Earnings; Meta, AI, and ATT; Meta’s New PlaybookMonday, February 5, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,A few administrative notes up top:First, I will takenext Monday offas a part of the Chinese New Year holiday and associated travel with my family.Second, onthe latest Sharp Techwe had a rollicking mailbag episode, covering everything from the Vision Pro to covering quarterly earnings to more on Apple and the App Store. Highlights from that show are onthe Sharp Tech YouTube channel.Third, on March 1 Stratechery Plus will raise its prices to $15/month and $150/year. This is the 2nd price raise in the 10 years I have been monetizing Stratechery (the last wasin 2019). If you are a monthly member and want to lock in the current annual price of $120/year for the next year you can do so on your account page (use the link at the bottom of this email to log in directly to your account).I had fun inmy interview with Netflix Co-CEO Greg Petersasking for subscription advice for Stratechery; there aren’tthatmany commonalities between our businesses, but I do take serious the concept of continually working to not just meet your expectations for quality content but also regular surprises on the upside, including new mediums (the Stratechery podcast), content types (Stratechery Interviews, Sharp Tech and China, Dithering), and an ever-improving user experience (Passport), and then, once every five years or so, trusting that I have earned your continued support.On to the Update:Meta EarningsFromBloomberg:Meta Platforms Inc. announced plans to buy back an additional $50 billion in shares and issue its first-ever quarterly dividend as Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg works to convince investors that his costly bets on the metaverse and artificial intelligence will pay off. The social media giant also reported strong fourth-quarter results, posting a 25% gain in sales and profits that tripled, while also projecting revenue growth for the current period that surpassed projections. The shares jumped more than 14% in extended trading. The stock had gained 12% this year through Thursday’s close after nearly tripling last year.FromBloombergagain, a day later:Meta Platforms Inc. just became Wall Street’s top comeback kid. It was only a couple of years back the Facebook owner suffered the single biggest market value destruction in stock-market history. But the company has come a long way since then, on Thursday it dazzled shareholders with yet another impressive quarterly earnings report as the social media giant focuses on cutting back costs and shoring up billions in profits. The stock rose 20% Friday to close at an all-time high of $474.99 per share. The gain added $197 billion to its market capitalization, the biggest single-session market value addition, eclipsing the $190 billion gains made by Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. in 2022.It has actually only been five quarters since I wroteMeta Mythsthe week the stock hit a nadir of $90. Since then Meta has lapped tough COVID and ATT comps, figured out ad targeting in a probabilistic world, driven Reels adoption and monetized it effectively, all while its core products — including Facebook — have continued to grow.And then there is AI.Meta, AI, and ATTMyth 5 in “Meta Myths” was “Meta’s Spending is a Waste”:What also has investors spooked, though, is Facebook’s increasing capital expenditures, which have nothing to do with the Metaverse (Metaverse spending is almost all research and development). Meta expects to spend $32-$33 billion in capital expenditures in 2022, and $34-$39 billion in 2023; that won’t hit the income statement right away (capital expenditures show up as depreciation in cost of revenue), but that just means that longer-term profitability may be increasingly impaired. Facebook’s gross margins were down to 79% last quarter, its lowest mark since 2013, and if revenue growth doesn’t pick back up then those margins will fall further, given that the costs are already built in…The long-term solution to ATT, though, is to build probabilistic models that not only figure out who should be targeted (which, to be fair, Meta was already using machine learning for), but also understanding which ads converted and which didn’t. These probabilistic models will be built by massive fleets of GPUs, which, in the case of Nvidia’s A100 cards, cost in the five figures; that may have been too pricey in a world where deterministic ads worked better anyways, but Meta isn’t in that world any longer, and it would be foolish to not invest in better targeting and measurement.Moreover, the same approach will be essential to Reels’ continued growth: it is massively more difficult to recommend content from across the entire network than only from your friends and family, particularly because Meta plans to recommend not just video but also media of all types, and intersperse it with content you care about. Here too AI models will be the key, and the equipment to build those models costs a lot of money.In the long run, though, this investment should pay off. First, there are the benefits to better targeting and better recommendations I just described, which should restart revenue growth. Second, once these AI data centers are built out the cost to maintain and upgrade them should be significantly less than the initial cost of building them the first time. Third, this massive investment is one no other company can make, except for Google (and, not coincidentally, Google’s capital expenditures are set to rise as well).That last point is perhaps the most important: ATT hurt Meta more than any other company, because it already had by far the largest and most finely-tuned ad business, but in the long run it should deepen Meta’s moat. This level of investment simply isn’t viable for a company like Snap or Twitter or any of the other also-rans in digital advertising (even beyond the fact that Snap relies on cloud providers instead of its own data centers); when you combine the fact that Meta’s ad targeting will likely start to pull away from the field (outside of Google), with the massive increase in inventory that comes from Reels (which reduces prices), it will be a wonder why any advertiser would bother going anywhere else.This is almost completely correct, and even the part that is wrong — which I will get to in a moment — only makes the initial point even stronger.Start with ad targeting and conversion tracking, and my go-to Meta chart:As I notedlast quarter, the attenuation in inventory growth — which is still 21% — was evidence that Reels was both being widely adopted and increasingly saturated in terms of ad load; that attenuation continued this quarter as expected, given the precedent set by Instagram (the first dip in impressions growth on this chart) and by Stories (the second dip in impressions growth on this chart). This is how Meta builds new businesses: they drive usage to new apps or formats, then add ads, and then optimize those ads. We are now in the optimization stage for Reels; that, along with the slowdown in impressions growth, leads to higher prices-per-ad.That optimization is very much driven by AI; CFO Susan Li saidon the earnings call:We’re delivering continued performance gains from ranking improvements as we adopt larger and more advanced models and this will remain an ongoing area of investment in 2024. We’re also building out our Advantage+ portfolio of solutions to help advertisers leverage AI to automate their advertising campaigns. Advertisers can choose to automate part of the campaign creation set up process, such as who to show their ad to, with Advantage+ Audience. Or, they can automate their campaign completely using our end-to-end automation tool for driving online sales, Advantage+ Shopping, which continues to see strong growth. We’re also now exploring ways to apply this end-to-end automation to new objectives.On the ads creative side, we completed the global roll out of two of our generative AI features in Q4 – text variations and image expansion – and plan to broaden availability of our background generation feature later in Q1. Initial adoption of these features has been strong and tests are showing promising early performance gains. This will remain a big area of focus for us in 2024.The first part is what we used to call machine learning beforeeverything became AI, but it’s very much a real thing, particularly in a post-ATT world: Meta is continually learning what signals relate to what outcomes, and the best way for advertisers to take advantage of that learning is to simply give Meta a number that they want to hit, whether that be sales, leads, etc., and how much they are willing to pay. You can see, if you think about it, why advertising is a great arena for the application of AI in this way: it is goal-centric and measurable, and thus optimizable in a way that is tailor-made for machine learning (and speaking of tailor-made, this is the part of the business for whichMeta has made custom silicon).The generative AI portion is what is new (and what we mean by “AI” in the ChatGPT sense), but here again advertising is tailor-made for this particular use case: one of the challenges of generative AI is knowing whether what was created is “right”; in the context of ads what is “right” is what drives conversions. Thus Meta (and also Google) is creating an entire pipeline where a customer can specify goals and the price they are willing to pay and their desired brand appearance and message, and their advertising AI will not only figure out what customers to advertise to (and where), but also exactly how to show and articulate the ad so that it works.This gets at the last point in this excerpt: no one else can do this at the same scale, for a lack of infrastructure, data, and talent. Michael Nathanson asked Lion the follow-up callhow good Meta’s targeting was now as compared to the pre-ATT deterministic system; Li answered:So on the first question about where ROAS is relative to pre-ATT, I don’t have a comparison to give you relative to pre-ATT. In general, we think the landscape has changed so much that it’s kind of hard to know the counterfactual of what the world would look like without ATT today. But we’ve made meaningful improvements to our performance and measurement in recent periods. We believe that advertising is a relative performance gain and that we are very well-positioned here because of all of the investments we’ve made, and we’ve received consistently positive feedback from advertisers who adopt our tools.This is, at first read, an affirmation of what I have maintained all along: ATT would hurt Meta the most because it had the largest deterministic ad business, but it would also leave Meta in a stronger competitive position. FromApple and Facebook:Still, I wouldn’t count Facebook out: to the extent the company is hurt, it seems likely that the universe of 3rd-party ad tech companies that lack Facebook’s direct connection with users, both in terms of data collection and ad display, will be in far worse shape, and it is not as if the digital ecosystem — and its associated advertising — is going to disappear. Indeed, much like GDPR, the safe bet is the company with the wherewithal to make lemons out of lemonade. Notably, Apple’s alternative for app install ad campaigns, SKAdNetwork, is so limited that there is likely to be tremendous value in whatever company can create the exact sort of automated campaign creation that Facebook is already offering.It is worth noting that while the digital ecosystem did not disappear, it absolutely did shrink: Nathanson, in his Meta earnings note, explained what he was driving at with that question:While revenues have recovered, with +22% organic growth in the fourth quarter, we think that the more important driver of the outperformance has been the company’s focus on tighter cost controls. Coming in 2023, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a New Year’s resolution, declaring 2023 the “Year of Efficiency.” By remaining laser-focused on reining in expense growth as the top line reaccelerated, Meta’s operating margins (excluding restructuring) expanded almost +1,100 bps vs last 4Q, reaching nearly 44%. Harking back to Zuckerberg’s resolution, Meta’s 2023 was, in fact, highly efficient…Putting this in perspective, two years ago, after the warnings on the 4Q 2021 earnings call, we forecasted that Meta Family of Apps would generate $155 billion of revenues and nearly $68 billion of GAAP operating income in 2023. Fast forward to today, and last night Meta reported that Family of Apps delivered only $134.3 billion of revenues ($22 billion below our 2-year ago estimate), yet FOA operating income (adjusted for one-time expenses) was amazingly in-line with that two-year old forecast. For 2024, while we now forecast Family of Apps revenues of $151.2 billion (almost $30 billion below the forecast made on February 2, 2022), our current all-in Meta operating profit estimate of $56.8 billion is also essentially in line. In essence, Meta has emerged as a more profitable (dare we say, efficient) business.That shrunken revenue figure is digital advertising that simply disappeared — in many cases, along with the companies that bought it — in the wake of ATT. The fact that Meta responded by becoming so much leaner, though, was critical to not just surviving ATT, but also laid the groundwork for where the company is going next.Meta’s New PlaybookThis gets to the piece of my analysis above that I got wrong: Meta is not at all slowing down its spending on AI infrastructure. Li announced:We expect higher infrastructure-related costs this year. Given our increased capital investments in recent years, we expect depreciation expenses in 2024 to increase by a larger amount than in 2023. We also expect to incur higher operating costs from running a larger infrastructure footprint…We anticipate our full-year 2024 capital expenditures will be in the range of $30-37 billion, a $2 billion increase of the high end of our prior range. We expect growth will be driven by investments in servers, including both AI and non-AI hardware, and data centers as we ramp up construction on sites with our previously announced new data center architecture. Our updated outlook reflects our evolving understanding of our AI capacity demands as we anticipate what we may need for the next generations of foundational research and product development. While we are not providing guidance for years beyond 2024, we expect our ambitious long-term AI research and product development efforts will require growing infrastructure investments beyond this year.It’s hard to believe that capital costs were what broke the camel’s back in late 2022, leading to the largest stock slide of all time, even as they now are part and parcel of a result that led to the largest stock gain, but Zuckerberg certainly remembers. From Zuckerberg’s prepared remarks:I recently shared that by the end of this year we’ll have about 350k H100s and including other GPUs that’ll be around 600k H100 equivalents of compute. We’re well-positioned now because of the lessons that we learned from Reels. We initially under-built our GPU clusters for Reels, and when we were going through that I decided that we should build enough capacity to support both Reels and another Reels-sized AI service that we expected to emerge so we wouldn’t be in that situation again. And at the time the decision was somewhat controversial and we faced a lot of questions about capex spending, but I’m really glad that we did this.Remember that Meta’s stock slide happened just weeks before the release of ChatGPT, when it suddenly became a very big deal that Meta was already buying GPUs before the rest of the world suddenly wanted in. Zuckerberg was right!What Zuckerberg seems to have learned, though, is that being right isn’t always enough, at least if you want to avoid a lot of pain. Zuckerberg regularly references various “playbooks”, such as the company’s approach to monetization that I mentioned above: first iterate on the product, then invest in growth, then monetize, and then optimize. He added several other playbooks on this call, including the company’s plan to link research with product goals, its open source playbook, and its playbook for learning from data and rapid iteration — the word “playbook” appeared seven times on the call.The new playbook, though, wasn’t labeled as such, but it seemed just as premeditated: before Li announced the capital expansion plan, the company (1) announced fantastic results with expanding profitability, (2) announced an expanded stock buyback program, and (3) announced that the company would start paying a dividend for the first time. That sounds like an excellent playbook for receiving investor permission for new spending. Meta is proving itself to be a responsible caretaker of shareholder money, is giving a big chunk of it back, and is committing to a regular payment schedule. Only then is it asking to spend more for product capabilities that are already showing their worth, and this time investors were more than happy to obligeThis Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedMeta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024Meta’s AI AbundanceDateTuesday, October 29, 2024Meta MythsDateMonday, October 31, 2022←An Interview with Joanna Stern About Creating Content (and the Apple Vision Pro)The Apple Vision Pro→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Meta Earnings; Meta, AI, and ATT; Meta’s New PlaybookMonday, February 5, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,A few administrative notes up top:First, I will takenext Monday offas a part of the Chinese New Year holiday and associated travel with my family.Second, onthe latest Sharp Techwe had a rollicking mailbag episode, covering everything from the Vision Pro to covering quarterly earnings to more on Apple and the App Store. Highlights from that show are onthe Sharp Tech YouTube channel.Third, on March 1 Stratechery Plus will raise its prices to $15/month and $150/year. This is the 2nd price raise in the 10 years I have been monetizing Stratechery (the last wasin 2019). If you are a monthly member and want to lock in the current annual price of $120/year for the next year you can do so on your account page (use the link at the bottom of this email to log in directly to your account).I had fun inmy interview with Netflix Co-CEO Greg Petersasking for subscription advice for Stratechery; there aren’tthatmany commonalities between our businesses, but I do take serious the concept of continually working to not just meet your expectations for quality content but also regular surprises on the upside, including new mediums (the Stratechery podcast), content types (Stratechery Interviews, Sharp Tech and China, Dithering), and an ever-improving user experience (Passport), and then, once every five years or so, trusting that I have earned your continued support.On to the Update:Meta EarningsFromBloomberg:Meta Platforms Inc. announced plans to buy back an additional $50 billion in shares and issue its first-ever quarterly dividend as Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg works to convince investors that his costly bets on the metaverse and artificial intelligence will pay off. The social media giant also reported strong fourth-quarter results, posting a 25% gain in sales and profits that tripled, while also projecting revenue growth for the current period that surpassed projections. The shares jumped more than 14% in extended trading. The stock had gained 12% this year through Thursday’s close after nearly tripling last year.FromBloombergagain, a day later:Meta Platforms Inc. just became Wall Street’s top comeback kid. It was only a couple of years back the Facebook owner suffered the single biggest market value destruction in stock-market history. But the company has come a long way since then, on Thursday it dazzled shareholders with yet another impressive quarterly earnings report as the social media giant focuses on cutting back costs and shoring up billions in profits. The stock rose 20% Friday to close at an all-time high of $474.99 per share. The gain added $197 billion to its market capitalization, the biggest single-session market value addition, eclipsing the $190 billion gains made by Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. in 2022.It has actually only been five quarters since I wroteMeta Mythsthe week the stock hit a nadir of $90. Since then Meta has lapped tough COVID and ATT comps, figured out ad targeting in a probabilistic world, driven Reels adoption and monetized it effectively, all while its core products — including Facebook — have continued to grow.And then there is AI.Meta, AI, and ATTMyth 5 in “Meta Myths” was “Meta’s Spending is a Waste”:What also has investors spooked, though, is Facebook’s increasing capital expenditures, which have nothing to do with the Metaverse (Metaverse spending is almost all research and development). Meta expects to spend $32-$33 billion in capital expenditures in 2022, and $34-$39 billion in 2023; that won’t hit the income statement right away (capital expenditures show up as depreciation in cost of revenue), but that just means that longer-term profitability may be increasingly impaired. Facebook’s gross margins were down to 79% last quarter, its lowest mark since 2013, and if revenue growth doesn’t pick back up then those margins will fall further, given that the costs are already built in…The long-term solution to ATT, though, is to build probabilistic models that not only figure out who should be targeted (which, to be fair, Meta was already using machine learning for), but also understanding which ads converted and which didn’t. These probabilistic models will be built by massive fleets of GPUs, which, in the case of Nvidia’s A100 cards, cost in the five figures; that may have been too pricey in a world where deterministic ads worked better anyways, but Meta isn’t in that world any longer, and it would be foolish to not invest in better targeting and measurement.Moreover, the same approach will be essential to Reels’ continued growth: it is massively more difficult to recommend content from across the entire network than only from your friends and family, particularly because Meta plans to recommend not just video but also media of all types, and intersperse it with content you care about. Here too AI models will be the key, and the equipment to build those models costs a lot of money.In the long run, though, this investment should pay off. First, there are the benefits to better targeting and better recommendations I just described, which should restart revenue growth. Second, once these AI data centers are built out the cost to maintain and upgrade them should be significantly less than the initial cost of building them the first time. Third, this massive investment is one no other company can make, except for Google (and, not coincidentally, Google’s capital expenditures are set to rise as well).That last point is perhaps the most important: ATT hurt Meta more than any other company, because it already had by far the largest and most finely-tuned ad business, but in the long run it should deepen Meta’s moat. This level of investment simply isn’t viable for a company like Snap or Twitter or any of the other also-rans in digital advertising (even beyond the fact that Snap relies on cloud providers instead of its own data centers); when you combine the fact that Meta’s ad targeting will likely start to pull away from the field (outside of Google), with the massive increase in inventory that comes from Reels (which reduces prices), it will be a wonder why any advertiser would bother going anywhere else.This is almost completely correct, and even the part that is wrong — which I will get to in a moment — only makes the initial point even stronger.Start with ad targeting and conversion tracking, and my go-to Meta chart:As I notedlast quarter, the attenuation in inventory growth — which is still 21% — was evidence that Reels was both being widely adopted and increasingly saturated in terms of ad load; that attenuation continued this quarter as expected, given the precedent set by Instagram (the first dip in impressions growth on this chart) and by Stories (the second dip in impressions growth on this chart). This is how Meta builds new businesses: they drive usage to new apps or formats, then add ads, and then optimize those ads. We are now in the optimization stage for Reels; that, along with the slowdown in impressions growth, leads to higher prices-per-ad.That optimization is very much driven by AI; CFO Susan Li saidon the earnings call:We’re delivering continued performance gains from ranking improvements as we adopt larger and more advanced models and this will remain an ongoing area of investment in 2024. We’re also building out our Advantage+ portfolio of solutions to help advertisers leverage AI to automate their advertising campaigns. Advertisers can choose to automate part of the campaign creation set up process, such as who to show their ad to, with Advantage+ Audience. Or, they can automate their campaign completely using our end-to-end automation tool for driving online sales, Advantage+ Shopping, which continues to see strong growth. We’re also now exploring ways to apply this end-to-end automation to new objectives.On the ads creative side, we completed the global roll out of two of our generative AI features in Q4 – text variations and image expansion – and plan to broaden availability of our background generation feature later in Q1. Initial adoption of these features has been strong and tests are showing promising early performance gains. This will remain a big area of focus for us in 2024.The first part is what we used to call machine learning beforeeverything became AI, but it’s very much a real thing, particularly in a post-ATT world: Meta is continually learning what signals relate to what outcomes, and the best way for advertisers to take advantage of that learning is to simply give Meta a number that they want to hit, whether that be sales, leads, etc., and how much they are willing to pay. You can see, if you think about it, why advertising is a great arena for the application of AI in this way: it is goal-centric and measurable, and thus optimizable in a way that is tailor-made for machine learning (and speaking of tailor-made, this is the part of the business for whichMeta has made custom silicon).The generative AI portion is what is new (and what we mean by “AI” in the ChatGPT sense), but here again advertising is tailor-made for this particular use case: one of the challenges of generative AI is knowing whether what was created is “right”; in the context of ads what is “right” is what drives conversions. Thus Meta (and also Google) is creating an entire pipeline where a customer can specify goals and the price they are willing to pay and their desired brand appearance and message, and their advertising AI will not only figure out what customers to advertise to (and where), but also exactly how to show and articulate the ad so that it works.This gets at the last point in this excerpt: no one else can do this at the same scale, for a lack of infrastructure, data, and talent. Michael Nathanson asked Lion the follow-up callhow good Meta’s targeting was now as compared to the pre-ATT deterministic system; Li answered:So on the first question about where ROAS is relative to pre-ATT, I don’t have a comparison to give you relative to pre-ATT. In general, we think the landscape has changed so much that it’s kind of hard to know the counterfactual of what the world would look like without ATT today. But we’ve made meaningful improvements to our performance and measurement in recent periods. We believe that advertising is a relative performance gain and that we are very well-positioned here because of all of the investments we’ve made, and we’ve received consistently positive feedback from advertisers who adopt our tools.This is, at first read, an affirmation of what I have maintained all along: ATT would hurt Meta the most because it had the largest deterministic ad business, but it would also leave Meta in a stronger competitive position. FromApple and Facebook:Still, I wouldn’t count Facebook out: to the extent the company is hurt, it seems likely that the universe of 3rd-party ad tech companies that lack Facebook’s direct connection with users, both in terms of data collection and ad display, will be in far worse shape, and it is not as if the digital ecosystem — and its associated advertising — is going to disappear. Indeed, much like GDPR, the safe bet is the company with the wherewithal to make lemons out of lemonade. Notably, Apple’s alternative for app install ad campaigns, SKAdNetwork, is so limited that there is likely to be tremendous value in whatever company can create the exact sort of automated campaign creation that Facebook is already offering.It is worth noting that while the digital ecosystem did not disappear, it absolutely did shrink: Nathanson, in his Meta earnings note, explained what he was driving at with that question:While revenues have recovered, with +22% organic growth in the fourth quarter, we think that the more important driver of the outperformance has been the company’s focus on tighter cost controls. Coming in 2023, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a New Year’s resolution, declaring 2023 the “Year of Efficiency.” By remaining laser-focused on reining in expense growth as the top line reaccelerated, Meta’s operating margins (excluding restructuring) expanded almost +1,100 bps vs last 4Q, reaching nearly 44%. Harking back to Zuckerberg’s resolution, Meta’s 2023 was, in fact, highly efficient…Putting this in perspective, two years ago, after the warnings on the 4Q 2021 earnings call, we forecasted that Meta Family of Apps would generate $155 billion of revenues and nearly $68 billion of GAAP operating income in 2023. Fast forward to today, and last night Meta reported that Family of Apps delivered only $134.3 billion of revenues ($22 billion below our 2-year ago estimate), yet FOA operating income (adjusted for one-time expenses) was amazingly in-line with that two-year old forecast. For 2024, while we now forecast Family of Apps revenues of $151.2 billion (almost $30 billion below the forecast made on February 2, 2022), our current all-in Meta operating profit estimate of $56.8 billion is also essentially in line. In essence, Meta has emerged as a more profitable (dare we say, efficient) business.That shrunken revenue figure is digital advertising that simply disappeared — in many cases, along with the companies that bought it — in the wake of ATT. The fact that Meta responded by becoming so much leaner, though, was critical to not just surviving ATT, but also laid the groundwork for where the company is going next.Meta’s New PlaybookThis gets to the piece of my analysis above that I got wrong: Meta is not at all slowing down its spending on AI infrastructure. Li announced:We expect higher infrastructure-related costs this year. Given our increased capital investments in recent years, we expect depreciation expenses in 2024 to increase by a larger amount than in 2023. We also expect to incur higher operating costs from running a larger infrastructure footprint…We anticipate our full-year 2024 capital expenditures will be in the range of $30-37 billion, a $2 billion increase of the high end of our prior range. We expect growth will be driven by investments in servers, including both AI and non-AI hardware, and data centers as we ramp up construction on sites with our previously announced new data center architecture. Our updated outlook reflects our evolving understanding of our AI capacity demands as we anticipate what we may need for the next generations of foundational research and product development. While we are not providing guidance for years beyond 2024, we expect our ambitious long-term AI research and product development efforts will require growing infrastructure investments beyond this year.It’s hard to believe that capital costs were what broke the camel’s back in late 2022, leading to the largest stock slide of all time, even as they now are part and parcel of a result that led to the largest stock gain, but Zuckerberg certainly remembers. From Zuckerberg’s prepared remarks:I recently shared that by the end of this year we’ll have about 350k H100s and including other GPUs that’ll be around 600k H100 equivalents of compute. We’re well-positioned now because of the lessons that we learned from Reels. We initially under-built our GPU clusters for Reels, and when we were going through that I decided that we should build enough capacity to support both Reels and another Reels-sized AI service that we expected to emerge so we wouldn’t be in that situation again. And at the time the decision was somewhat controversial and we faced a lot of questions about capex spending, but I’m really glad that we did this.Remember that Meta’s stock slide happened just weeks before the release of ChatGPT, when it suddenly became a very big deal that Meta was already buying GPUs before the rest of the world suddenly wanted in. Zuckerberg was right!What Zuckerberg seems to have learned, though, is that being right isn’t always enough, at least if you want to avoid a lot of pain. Zuckerberg regularly references various “playbooks”, such as the company’s approach to monetization that I mentioned above: first iterate on the product, then invest in growth, then monetize, and then optimize. He added several other playbooks on this call, including the company’s plan to link research with product goals, its open source playbook, and its playbook for learning from data and rapid iteration — the word “playbook” appeared seven times on the call.The new playbook, though, wasn’t labeled as such, but it seemed just as premeditated: before Li announced the capital expansion plan, the company (1) announced fantastic results with expanding profitability, (2) announced an expanded stock buyback program, and (3) announced that the company would start paying a dividend for the first time. That sounds like an excellent playbook for receiving investor permission for new spending. Meta is proving itself to be a responsible caretaker of shareholder money, is giving a big chunk of it back, and is committing to a regular payment schedule. Only then is it asking to spend more for product capabilities that are already showing their worth, and this time investors were more than happy to obligeThis Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedMeta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024Meta’s AI AbundanceDateTuesday, October 29, 2024Meta MythsDateMonday, October 31, 2022←An Interview with Joanna Stern About Creating Content (and the Apple Vision Pro)The Apple Vision Pro→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Meta Earnings; Meta, AI, and ATT; Meta’s New PlaybookMonday, February 5, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,A few administrative notes up top:First, I will takenext Monday offas a part of the Chinese New Year holiday and associated travel with my family.Second, onthe latest Sharp Techwe had a rollicking mailbag episode, covering everything from the Vision Pro to covering quarterly earnings to more on Apple and the App Store. Highlights from that show are onthe Sharp Tech YouTube channel.Third, on March 1 Stratechery Plus will raise its prices to $15/month and $150/year. This is the 2nd price raise in the 10 years I have been monetizing Stratechery (the last wasin 2019). If you are a monthly member and want to lock in the current annual price of $120/year for the next year you can do so on your account page (use the link at the bottom of this email to log in directly to your account).I had fun inmy interview with Netflix Co-CEO Greg Petersasking for subscription advice for Stratechery; there aren’tthatmany commonalities between our businesses, but I do take serious the concept of continually working to not just meet your expectations for quality content but also regular surprises on the upside, including new mediums (the Stratechery podcast), content types (Stratechery Interviews, Sharp Tech and China, Dithering), and an ever-improving user experience (Passport), and then, once every five years or so, trusting that I have earned your continued support.On to the Update:Meta EarningsFromBloomberg:Meta Platforms Inc. announced plans to buy back an additional $50 billion in shares and issue its first-ever quarterly dividend as Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg works to convince investors that his costly bets on the metaverse and artificial intelligence will pay off. The social media giant also reported strong fourth-quarter results, posting a 25% gain in sales and profits that tripled, while also projecting revenue growth for the current period that surpassed projections. The shares jumped more than 14% in extended trading. The stock had gained 12% this year through Thursday’s close after nearly tripling last year.FromBloombergagain, a day later:Meta Platforms Inc. just became Wall Street’s top comeback kid. It was only a couple of years back the Facebook owner suffered the single biggest market value destruction in stock-market history. But the company has come a long way since then, on Thursday it dazzled shareholders with yet another impressive quarterly earnings report as the social media giant focuses on cutting back costs and shoring up billions in profits. The stock rose 20% Friday to close at an all-time high of $474.99 per share. The gain added $197 billion to its market capitalization, the biggest single-session market value addition, eclipsing the $190 billion gains made by Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. in 2022.It has actually only been five quarters since I wroteMeta Mythsthe week the stock hit a nadir of $90. Since then Meta has lapped tough COVID and ATT comps, figured out ad targeting in a probabilistic world, driven Reels adoption and monetized it effectively, all while its core products — including Facebook — have continued to grow.And then there is AI.Meta, AI, and ATTMyth 5 in “Meta Myths” was “Meta’s Spending is a Waste”:What also has investors spooked, though, is Facebook’s increasing capital expenditures, which have nothing to do with the Metaverse (Metaverse spending is almost all research and development). Meta expects to spend $32-$33 billion in capital expenditures in 2022, and $34-$39 billion in 2023; that won’t hit the income statement right away (capital expenditures show up as depreciation in cost of revenue), but that just means that longer-term profitability may be increasingly impaired. Facebook’s gross margins were down to 79% last quarter, its lowest mark since 2013, and if revenue growth doesn’t pick back up then those margins will fall further, given that the costs are already built in…The long-term solution to ATT, though, is to build probabilistic models that not only figure out who should be targeted (which, to be fair, Meta was already using machine learning for), but also understanding which ads converted and which didn’t. These probabilistic models will be built by massive fleets of GPUs, which, in the case of Nvidia’s A100 cards, cost in the five figures; that may have been too pricey in a world where deterministic ads worked better anyways, but Meta isn’t in that world any longer, and it would be foolish to not invest in better targeting and measurement.Moreover, the same approach will be essential to Reels’ continued growth: it is massively more difficult to recommend content from across the entire network than only from your friends and family, particularly because Meta plans to recommend not just video but also media of all types, and intersperse it with content you care about. Here too AI models will be the key, and the equipment to build those models costs a lot of money.In the long run, though, this investment should pay off. First, there are the benefits to better targeting and better recommendations I just described, which should restart revenue growth. Second, once these AI data centers are built out the cost to maintain and upgrade them should be significantly less than the initial cost of building them the first time. Third, this massive investment is one no other company can make, except for Google (and, not coincidentally, Google’s capital expenditures are set to rise as well).That last point is perhaps the most important: ATT hurt Meta more than any other company, because it already had by far the largest and most finely-tuned ad business, but in the long run it should deepen Meta’s moat. This level of investment simply isn’t viable for a company like Snap or Twitter or any of the other also-rans in digital advertising (even beyond the fact that Snap relies on cloud providers instead of its own data centers); when you combine the fact that Meta’s ad targeting will likely start to pull away from the field (outside of Google), with the massive increase in inventory that comes from Reels (which reduces prices), it will be a wonder why any advertiser would bother going anywhere else.This is almost completely correct, and even the part that is wrong — which I will get to in a moment — only makes the initial point even stronger.Start with ad targeting and conversion tracking, and my go-to Meta chart:As I notedlast quarter, the attenuation in inventory growth — which is still 21% — was evidence that Reels was both being widely adopted and increasingly saturated in terms of ad load; that attenuation continued this quarter as expected, given the precedent set by Instagram (the first dip in impressions growth on this chart) and by Stories (the second dip in impressions growth on this chart). This is how Meta builds new businesses: they drive usage to new apps or formats, then add ads, and then optimize those ads. We are now in the optimization stage for Reels; that, along with the slowdown in impressions growth, leads to higher prices-per-ad.That optimization is very much driven by AI; CFO Susan Li saidon the earnings call:We’re delivering continued performance gains from ranking improvements as we adopt larger and more advanced models and this will remain an ongoing area of investment in 2024. We’re also building out our Advantage+ portfolio of solutions to help advertisers leverage AI to automate their advertising campaigns. Advertisers can choose to automate part of the campaign creation set up process, such as who to show their ad to, with Advantage+ Audience. Or, they can automate their campaign completely using our end-to-end automation tool for driving online sales, Advantage+ Shopping, which continues to see strong growth. We’re also now exploring ways to apply this end-to-end automation to new objectives.On the ads creative side, we completed the global roll out of two of our generative AI features in Q4 – text variations and image expansion – and plan to broaden availability of our background generation feature later in Q1. Initial adoption of these features has been strong and tests are showing promising early performance gains. This will remain a big area of focus for us in 2024.The first part is what we used to call machine learning beforeeverything became AI, but it’s very much a real thing, particularly in a post-ATT world: Meta is continually learning what signals relate to what outcomes, and the best way for advertisers to take advantage of that learning is to simply give Meta a number that they want to hit, whether that be sales, leads, etc., and how much they are willing to pay. You can see, if you think about it, why advertising is a great arena for the application of AI in this way: it is goal-centric and measurable, and thus optimizable in a way that is tailor-made for machine learning (and speaking of tailor-made, this is the part of the business for whichMeta has made custom silicon).The generative AI portion is what is new (and what we mean by “AI” in the ChatGPT sense), but here again advertising is tailor-made for this particular use case: one of the challenges of generative AI is knowing whether what was created is “right”; in the context of ads what is “right” is what drives conversions. Thus Meta (and also Google) is creating an entire pipeline where a customer can specify goals and the price they are willing to pay and their desired brand appearance and message, and their advertising AI will not only figure out what customers to advertise to (and where), but also exactly how to show and articulate the ad so that it works.This gets at the last point in this excerpt: no one else can do this at the same scale, for a lack of infrastructure, data, and talent. Michael Nathanson asked Lion the follow-up callhow good Meta’s targeting was now as compared to the pre-ATT deterministic system; Li answered:So on the first question about where ROAS is relative to pre-ATT, I don’t have a comparison to give you relative to pre-ATT. In general, we think the landscape has changed so much that it’s kind of hard to know the counterfactual of what the world would look like without ATT today. But we’ve made meaningful improvements to our performance and measurement in recent periods. We believe that advertising is a relative performance gain and that we are very well-positioned here because of all of the investments we’ve made, and we’ve received consistently positive feedback from advertisers who adopt our tools.This is, at first read, an affirmation of what I have maintained all along: ATT would hurt Meta the most because it had the largest deterministic ad business, but it would also leave Meta in a stronger competitive position. FromApple and Facebook:Still, I wouldn’t count Facebook out: to the extent the company is hurt, it seems likely that the universe of 3rd-party ad tech companies that lack Facebook’s direct connection with users, both in terms of data collection and ad display, will be in far worse shape, and it is not as if the digital ecosystem — and its associated advertising — is going to disappear. Indeed, much like GDPR, the safe bet is the company with the wherewithal to make lemons out of lemonade. Notably, Apple’s alternative for app install ad campaigns, SKAdNetwork, is so limited that there is likely to be tremendous value in whatever company can create the exact sort of automated campaign creation that Facebook is already offering.It is worth noting that while the digital ecosystem did not disappear, it absolutely did shrink: Nathanson, in his Meta earnings note, explained what he was driving at with that question:While revenues have recovered, with +22% organic growth in the fourth quarter, we think that the more important driver of the outperformance has been the company’s focus on tighter cost controls. Coming in 2023, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a New Year’s resolution, declaring 2023 the “Year of Efficiency.” By remaining laser-focused on reining in expense growth as the top line reaccelerated, Meta’s operating margins (excluding restructuring) expanded almost +1,100 bps vs last 4Q, reaching nearly 44%. Harking back to Zuckerberg’s resolution, Meta’s 2023 was, in fact, highly efficient…Putting this in perspective, two years ago, after the warnings on the 4Q 2021 earnings call, we forecasted that Meta Family of Apps would generate $155 billion of revenues and nearly $68 billion of GAAP operating income in 2023. Fast forward to today, and last night Meta reported that Family of Apps delivered only $134.3 billion of revenues ($22 billion below our 2-year ago estimate), yet FOA operating income (adjusted for one-time expenses) was amazingly in-line with that two-year old forecast. For 2024, while we now forecast Family of Apps revenues of $151.2 billion (almost $30 billion below the forecast made on February 2, 2022), our current all-in Meta operating profit estimate of $56.8 billion is also essentially in line. In essence, Meta has emerged as a more profitable (dare we say, efficient) business.That shrunken revenue figure is digital advertising that simply disappeared — in many cases, along with the companies that bought it — in the wake of ATT. The fact that Meta responded by becoming so much leaner, though, was critical to not just surviving ATT, but also laid the groundwork for where the company is going next.Meta’s New PlaybookThis gets to the piece of my analysis above that I got wrong: Meta is not at all slowing down its spending on AI infrastructure. Li announced:We expect higher infrastructure-related costs this year. Given our increased capital investments in recent years, we expect depreciation expenses in 2024 to increase by a larger amount than in 2023. We also expect to incur higher operating costs from running a larger infrastructure footprint…We anticipate our full-year 2024 capital expenditures will be in the range of $30-37 billion, a $2 billion increase of the high end of our prior range. We expect growth will be driven by investments in servers, including both AI and non-AI hardware, and data centers as we ramp up construction on sites with our previously announced new data center architecture. Our updated outlook reflects our evolving understanding of our AI capacity demands as we anticipate what we may need for the next generations of foundational research and product development. While we are not providing guidance for years beyond 2024, we expect our ambitious long-term AI research and product development efforts will require growing infrastructure investments beyond this year.It’s hard to believe that capital costs were what broke the camel’s back in late 2022, leading to the largest stock slide of all time, even as they now are part and parcel of a result that led to the largest stock gain, but Zuckerberg certainly remembers. From Zuckerberg’s prepared remarks:I recently shared that by the end of this year we’ll have about 350k H100s and including other GPUs that’ll be around 600k H100 equivalents of compute. We’re well-positioned now because of the lessons that we learned from Reels. We initially under-built our GPU clusters for Reels, and when we were going through that I decided that we should build enough capacity to support both Reels and another Reels-sized AI service that we expected to emerge so we wouldn’t be in that situation again. And at the time the decision was somewhat controversial and we faced a lot of questions about capex spending, but I’m really glad that we did this.Remember that Meta’s stock slide happened just weeks before the release of ChatGPT, when it suddenly became a very big deal that Meta was already buying GPUs before the rest of the world suddenly wanted in. Zuckerberg was right!What Zuckerberg seems to have learned, though, is that being right isn’t always enough, at least if you want to avoid a lot of pain. Zuckerberg regularly references various “playbooks”, such as the company’s approach to monetization that I mentioned above: first iterate on the product, then invest in growth, then monetize, and then optimize. He added several other playbooks on this call, including the company’s plan to link research with product goals, its open source playbook, and its playbook for learning from data and rapid iteration — the word “playbook” appeared seven times on the call.The new playbook, though, wasn’t labeled as such, but it seemed just as premeditated: before Li announced the capital expansion plan, the company (1) announced fantastic results with expanding profitability, (2) announced an expanded stock buyback program, and (3) announced that the company would start paying a dividend for the first time. That sounds like an excellent playbook for receiving investor permission for new spending. Meta is proving itself to be a responsible caretaker of shareholder money, is giving a big chunk of it back, and is committing to a regular payment schedule. Only then is it asking to spend more for product capabilities that are already showing their worth, and this time investors were more than happy to obligeThis Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedMeta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024Meta’s AI AbundanceDateTuesday, October 29, 2024Meta MythsDateMonday, October 31, 2022←An Interview with Joanna Stern About Creating Content (and the Apple Vision Pro)The Apple Vision Pro→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,A few administrative notes up top:First, I will takenext Monday offas a part of the Chinese New Year holiday and associated travel with my family.Second, onthe latest Sharp Techwe had a rollicking mailbag episode, covering everything from the Vision Pro to covering quarterly earnings to more on Apple and the App Store. Highlights from that show are onthe Sharp Tech YouTube channel.Third, on March 1 Stratechery Plus will raise its prices to $15/month and $150/year. This is the 2nd price raise in the 10 years I have been monetizing Stratechery (the last wasin 2019). If you are a monthly member and want to lock in the current annual price of $120/year for the next year you can do so on your account page (use the link at the bottom of this email to log in directly to your account).I had fun inmy interview with Netflix Co-CEO Greg Petersasking for subscription advice for Stratechery; there aren’tthatmany commonalities between our businesses, but I do take serious the concept of continually working to not just meet your expectations for quality content but also regular surprises on the upside, including new mediums (the Stratechery podcast), content types (Stratechery Interviews, Sharp Tech and China, Dithering), and an ever-improving user experience (Passport), and then, once every five years or so, trusting that I have earned your continued support.On to the Update:Meta EarningsFromBloomberg:Meta Platforms Inc. announced plans to buy back an additional $50 billion in shares and issue its first-ever quarterly dividend as Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg works to convince investors that his costly bets on the metaverse and artificial intelligence will pay off. The social media giant also reported strong fourth-quarter results, posting a 25% gain in sales and profits that tripled, while also projecting revenue growth for the current period that surpassed projections. The shares jumped more than 14% in extended trading. The stock had gained 12% this year through Thursday’s close after nearly tripling last year.FromBloombergagain, a day later:Meta Platforms Inc. just became Wall Street’s top comeback kid. It was only a couple of years back the Facebook owner suffered the single biggest market value destruction in stock-market history. But the company has come a long way since then, on Thursday it dazzled shareholders with yet another impressive quarterly earnings report as the social media giant focuses on cutting back costs and shoring up billions in profits. The stock rose 20% Friday to close at an all-time high of $474.99 per share. The gain added $197 billion to its market capitalization, the biggest single-session market value addition, eclipsing the $190 billion gains made by Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. in 2022.It has actually only been five quarters since I wroteMeta Mythsthe week the stock hit a nadir of $90. Since then Meta has lapped tough COVID and ATT comps, figured out ad targeting in a probabilistic world, driven Reels adoption and monetized it effectively, all while its core products — including Facebook — have continued to grow.And then there is AI.Meta, AI, and ATTMyth 5 in “Meta Myths” was “Meta’s Spending is a Waste”:What also has investors spooked, though, is Facebook’s increasing capital expenditures, which have nothing to do with the Metaverse (Metaverse spending is almost all research and development). Meta expects to spend $32-$33 billion in capital expenditures in 2022, and $34-$39 billion in 2023; that won’t hit the income statement right away (capital expenditures show up as depreciation in cost of revenue), but that just means that longer-term profitability may be increasingly impaired. Facebook’s gross margins were down to 79% last quarter, its lowest mark since 2013, and if revenue growth doesn’t pick back up then those margins will fall further, given that the costs are already built in…The long-term solution to ATT, though, is to build probabilistic models that not only figure out who should be targeted (which, to be fair, Meta was already using machine learning for), but also understanding which ads converted and which didn’t. These probabilistic models will be built by massive fleets of GPUs, which, in the case of Nvidia’s A100 cards, cost in the five figures; that may have been too pricey in a world where deterministic ads worked better anyways, but Meta isn’t in that world any longer, and it would be foolish to not invest in better targeting and measurement.Moreover, the same approach will be essential to Reels’ continued growth: it is massively more difficult to recommend content from across the entire network than only from your friends and family, particularly because Meta plans to recommend not just video but also media of all types, and intersperse it with content you care about. Here too AI models will be the key, and the equipment to build those models costs a lot of money.In the long run, though, this investment should pay off. First, there are the benefits to better targeting and better recommendations I just described, which should restart revenue growth. Second, once these AI data centers are built out the cost to maintain and upgrade them should be significantly less than the initial cost of building them the first time. Third, this massive investment is one no other company can make, except for Google (and, not coincidentally, Google’s capital expenditures are set to rise as well).That last point is perhaps the most important: ATT hurt Meta more than any other company, because it already had by far the largest and most finely-tuned ad business, but in the long run it should deepen Meta’s moat. This level of investment simply isn’t viable for a company like Snap or Twitter or any of the other also-rans in digital advertising (even beyond the fact that Snap relies on cloud providers instead of its own data centers); when you combine the fact that Meta’s ad targeting will likely start to pull away from the field (outside of Google), with the massive increase in inventory that comes from Reels (which reduces prices), it will be a wonder why any advertiser would bother going anywhere else.This is almost completely correct, and even the part that is wrong — which I will get to in a moment — only makes the initial point even stronger.Start with ad targeting and conversion tracking, and my go-to Meta chart:As I notedlast quarter, the attenuation in inventory growth — which is still 21% — was evidence that Reels was both being widely adopted and increasingly saturated in terms of ad load; that attenuation continued this quarter as expected, given the precedent set by Instagram (the first dip in impressions growth on this chart) and by Stories (the second dip in impressions growth on this chart). This is how Meta builds new businesses: they drive usage to new apps or formats, then add ads, and then optimize those ads. We are now in the optimization stage for Reels; that, along with the slowdown in impressions growth, leads to higher prices-per-ad.That optimization is very much driven by AI; CFO Susan Li saidon the earnings call:We’re delivering continued performance gains from ranking improvements as we adopt larger and more advanced models and this will remain an ongoing area of investment in 2024. We’re also building out our Advantage+ portfolio of solutions to help advertisers leverage AI to automate their advertising campaigns. Advertisers can choose to automate part of the campaign creation set up process, such as who to show their ad to, with Advantage+ Audience. Or, they can automate their campaign completely using our end-to-end automation tool for driving online sales, Advantage+ Shopping, which continues to see strong growth. We’re also now exploring ways to apply this end-to-end automation to new objectives.On the ads creative side, we completed the global roll out of two of our generative AI features in Q4 – text variations and image expansion – and plan to broaden availability of our background generation feature later in Q1. Initial adoption of these features has been strong and tests are showing promising early performance gains. This will remain a big area of focus for us in 2024.The first part is what we used to call machine learning beforeeverything became AI, but it’s very much a real thing, particularly in a post-ATT world: Meta is continually learning what signals relate to what outcomes, and the best way for advertisers to take advantage of that learning is to simply give Meta a number that they want to hit, whether that be sales, leads, etc., and how much they are willing to pay. You can see, if you think about it, why advertising is a great arena for the application of AI in this way: it is goal-centric and measurable, and thus optimizable in a way that is tailor-made for machine learning (and speaking of tailor-made, this is the part of the business for whichMeta has made custom silicon).The generative AI portion is what is new (and what we mean by “AI” in the ChatGPT sense), but here again advertising is tailor-made for this particular use case: one of the challenges of generative AI is knowing whether what was created is “right”; in the context of ads what is “right” is what drives conversions. Thus Meta (and also Google) is creating an entire pipeline where a customer can specify goals and the price they are willing to pay and their desired brand appearance and message, and their advertising AI will not only figure out what customers to advertise to (and where), but also exactly how to show and articulate the ad so that it works.This gets at the last point in this excerpt: no one else can do this at the same scale, for a lack of infrastructure, data, and talent. Michael Nathanson asked Lion the follow-up callhow good Meta’s targeting was now as compared to the pre-ATT deterministic system; Li answered:So on the first question about where ROAS is relative to pre-ATT, I don’t have a comparison to give you relative to pre-ATT. In general, we think the landscape has changed so much that it’s kind of hard to know the counterfactual of what the world would look like without ATT today. But we’ve made meaningful improvements to our performance and measurement in recent periods. We believe that advertising is a relative performance gain and that we are very well-positioned here because of all of the investments we’ve made, and we’ve received consistently positive feedback from advertisers who adopt our tools.This is, at first read, an affirmation of what I have maintained all along: ATT would hurt Meta the most because it had the largest deterministic ad business, but it would also leave Meta in a stronger competitive position. FromApple and Facebook:Still, I wouldn’t count Facebook out: to the extent the company is hurt, it seems likely that the universe of 3rd-party ad tech companies that lack Facebook’s direct connection with users, both in terms of data collection and ad display, will be in far worse shape, and it is not as if the digital ecosystem — and its associated advertising — is going to disappear. Indeed, much like GDPR, the safe bet is the company with the wherewithal to make lemons out of lemonade. Notably, Apple’s alternative for app install ad campaigns, SKAdNetwork, is so limited that there is likely to be tremendous value in whatever company can create the exact sort of automated campaign creation that Facebook is already offering.It is worth noting that while the digital ecosystem did not disappear, it absolutely did shrink: Nathanson, in his Meta earnings note, explained what he was driving at with that question:While revenues have recovered, with +22% organic growth in the fourth quarter, we think that the more important driver of the outperformance has been the company’s focus on tighter cost controls. Coming in 2023, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a New Year’s resolution, declaring 2023 the “Year of Efficiency.” By remaining laser-focused on reining in expense growth as the top line reaccelerated, Meta’s operating margins (excluding restructuring) expanded almost +1,100 bps vs last 4Q, reaching nearly 44%. Harking back to Zuckerberg’s resolution, Meta’s 2023 was, in fact, highly efficient…Putting this in perspective, two years ago, after the warnings on the 4Q 2021 earnings call, we forecasted that Meta Family of Apps would generate $155 billion of revenues and nearly $68 billion of GAAP operating income in 2023. Fast forward to today, and last night Meta reported that Family of Apps delivered only $134.3 billion of revenues ($22 billion below our 2-year ago estimate), yet FOA operating income (adjusted for one-time expenses) was amazingly in-line with that two-year old forecast. For 2024, while we now forecast Family of Apps revenues of $151.2 billion (almost $30 billion below the forecast made on February 2, 2022), our current all-in Meta operating profit estimate of $56.8 billion is also essentially in line. In essence, Meta has emerged as a more profitable (dare we say, efficient) business.That shrunken revenue figure is digital advertising that simply disappeared — in many cases, along with the companies that bought it — in the wake of ATT. The fact that Meta responded by becoming so much leaner, though, was critical to not just surviving ATT, but also laid the groundwork for where the company is going next.Meta’s New PlaybookThis gets to the piece of my analysis above that I got wrong: Meta is not at all slowing down its spending on AI infrastructure. Li announced:We expect higher infrastructure-related costs this year. Given our increased capital investments in recent years, we expect depreciation expenses in 2024 to increase by a larger amount than in 2023. We also expect to incur higher operating costs from running a larger infrastructure footprint…We anticipate our full-year 2024 capital expenditures will be in the range of $30-37 billion, a $2 billion increase of the high end of our prior range. We expect growth will be driven by investments in servers, including both AI and non-AI hardware, and data centers as we ramp up construction on sites with our previously announced new data center architecture. Our updated outlook reflects our evolving understanding of our AI capacity demands as we anticipate what we may need for the next generations of foundational research and product development. While we are not providing guidance for years beyond 2024, we expect our ambitious long-term AI research and product development efforts will require growing infrastructure investments beyond this year.It’s hard to believe that capital costs were what broke the camel’s back in late 2022, leading to the largest stock slide of all time, even as they now are part and parcel of a result that led to the largest stock gain, but Zuckerberg certainly remembers. From Zuckerberg’s prepared remarks:I recently shared that by the end of this year we’ll have about 350k H100s and including other GPUs that’ll be around 600k H100 equivalents of compute. We’re well-positioned now because of the lessons that we learned from Reels. We initially under-built our GPU clusters for Reels, and when we were going through that I decided that we should build enough capacity to support both Reels and another Reels-sized AI service that we expected to emerge so we wouldn’t be in that situation again. And at the time the decision was somewhat controversial and we faced a lot of questions about capex spending, but I’m really glad that we did this.Remember that Meta’s stock slide happened just weeks before the release of ChatGPT, when it suddenly became a very big deal that Meta was already buying GPUs before the rest of the world suddenly wanted in. Zuckerberg was right!What Zuckerberg seems to have learned, though, is that being right isn’t always enough, at least if you want to avoid a lot of pain. Zuckerberg regularly references various “playbooks”, such as the company’s approach to monetization that I mentioned above: first iterate on the product, then invest in growth, then monetize, and then optimize. He added several other playbooks on this call, including the company’s plan to link research with product goals, its open source playbook, and its playbook for learning from data and rapid iteration — the word “playbook” appeared seven times on the call.The new playbook, though, wasn’t labeled as such, but it seemed just as premeditated: before Li announced the capital expansion plan, the company (1) announced fantastic results with expanding profitability, (2) announced an expanded stock buyback program, and (3) announced that the company would start paying a dividend for the first time. That sounds like an excellent playbook for receiving investor permission for new spending. Meta is proving itself to be a responsible caretaker of shareholder money, is giving a big chunk of it back, and is committing to a regular payment schedule. Only then is it asking to spend more for product capabilities that are already showing their worth, and this time investors were more than happy to obligeThis Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email I had fun inmy interview with Netflix Co-CEO Greg Petersasking for subscription advice for Stratechery; there aren’tthatmany commonalities between our businesses, but I do take serious the concept of continually working to not just meet your expectations for quality content but also regular surprises on the upside, including new mediums (the Stratechery podcast), content types (Stratechery Interviews, Sharp Tech and China, Dithering), and an ever-improving user experience (Passport), and then, once every five years or so, trusting that I have earned your continued support. Meta Platforms Inc. announced plans to buy back an additional $50 billion in shares and issue its first-ever quarterly dividend as Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg works to convince investors that his costly bets on the metaverse and artificial intelligence will pay off. The social media giant also reported strong fourth-quarter results, posting a 25% gain in sales and profits that tripled, while also projecting revenue growth for the current period that surpassed projections. The shares jumped more than 14% in extended trading. The stock had gained 12% this year through Thursday’s close after nearly tripling last year. Meta Platforms Inc. just became Wall Street’s top comeback kid. It was only a couple of years back the Facebook owner suffered the single biggest market value destruction in stock-market history. But the company has come a long way since then, on Thursday it dazzled shareholders with yet another impressive quarterly earnings report as the social media giant focuses on cutting back costs and shoring up billions in profits. The stock rose 20% Friday to close at an all-time high of $474.99 per share. The gain added $197 billion to its market capitalization, the biggest single-session market value addition, eclipsing the $190 billion gains made by Apple Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. in 2022. It has actually only been five quarters since I wroteMeta Mythsthe week the stock hit a nadir of $90. Since then Meta has lapped tough COVID and ATT comps, figured out ad targeting in a probabilistic world, driven Reels adoption and monetized it effectively, all while its core products — including Facebook — have continued to grow. What also has investors spooked, though, is Facebook’s increasing capital expenditures, which have nothing to do with the Metaverse (Metaverse spending is almost all research and development). Meta expects to spend $32-$33 billion in capital expenditures in 2022, and $34-$39 billion in 2023; that won’t hit the income statement right away (capital expenditures show up as depreciation in cost of revenue), but that just means that longer-term profitability may be increasingly impaired. Facebook’s gross margins were down to 79% last quarter, its lowest mark since 2013, and if revenue growth doesn’t pick back up then those margins will fall further, given that the costs are already built in… The long-term solution to ATT, though, is to build probabilistic models that not only figure out who should be targeted (which, to be fair, Meta was already using machine learning for), but also understanding which ads converted and which didn’t. These probabilistic models will be built by massive fleets of GPUs, which, in the case of Nvidia’s A100 cards, cost in the five figures; that may have been too pricey in a world where deterministic ads worked better anyways, but Meta isn’t in that world any longer, and it would be foolish to not invest in better targeting and measurement. Moreover, the same approach will be essential to Reels’ continued growth: it is massively more difficult to recommend content from across the entire network than only from your friends and family, particularly because Meta plans to recommend not just video but also media of all types, and intersperse it with content you care about. Here too AI models will be the key, and the equipment to build those models costs a lot of money. In the long run, though, this investment should pay off. First, there are the benefits to better targeting and better recommendations I just described, which should restart revenue growth. Second, once these AI data centers are built out the cost to maintain and upgrade them should be significantly less than the initial cost of building them the first time. Third, this massive investment is one no other company can make, except for Google (and, not coincidentally, Google’s capital expenditures are set to rise as well). That last point is perhaps the most important: ATT hurt Meta more than any other company, because it already had by far the largest and most finely-tuned ad business, but in the long run it should deepen Meta’s moat. This level of investment simply isn’t viable for a company like Snap or Twitter or any of the other also-rans in digital advertising (even beyond the fact that Snap relies on cloud providers instead of its own data centers); when you combine the fact that Meta’s ad targeting will likely start to pull away from the field (outside of Google), with the massive increase in inventory that comes from Reels (which reduces prices), it will be a wonder why any advertiser would bother going anywhere else. As I notedlast quarter, the attenuation in inventory growth — which is still 21% — was evidence that Reels was both being widely adopted and increasingly saturated in terms of ad load; that attenuation continued this quarter as expected, given the precedent set by Instagram (the first dip in impressions growth on this chart) and by Stories (the second dip in impressions growth on this chart). This is how Meta builds new businesses: they drive usage to new apps or formats, then add ads, and then optimize those ads. We are now in the optimization stage for Reels; that, along with the slowdown in impressions growth, leads to higher prices-per-ad. We’re delivering continued performance gains from ranking improvements as we adopt larger and more advanced models and this will remain an ongoing area of investment in 2024. We’re also building out our Advantage+ portfolio of solutions to help advertisers leverage AI to automate their advertising campaigns. Advertisers can choose to automate part of the campaign creation set up process, such as who to show their ad to, with Advantage+ Audience. Or, they can automate their campaign completely using our end-to-end automation tool for driving online sales, Advantage+ Shopping, which continues to see strong growth. We’re also now exploring ways to apply this end-to-end automation to new objectives. On the ads creative side, we completed the global roll out of two of our generative AI features in Q4 – text variations and image expansion – and plan to broaden availability of our background generation feature later in Q1. Initial adoption of these features has been strong and tests are showing promising early performance gains. This will remain a big area of focus for us in 2024. The first part is what we used to call machine learning beforeeverything became AI, but it’s very much a real thing, particularly in a post-ATT world: Meta is continually learning what signals relate to what outcomes, and the best way for advertisers to take advantage of that learning is to simply give Meta a number that they want to hit, whether that be sales, leads, etc., and how much they are willing to pay. You can see, if you think about it, why advertising is a great arena for the application of AI in this way: it is goal-centric and measurable, and thus optimizable in a way that is tailor-made for machine learning (and speaking of tailor-made, this is the part of the business for whichMeta has made custom silicon). The generative AI portion is what is new (and what we mean by “AI” in the ChatGPT sense), but here again advertising is tailor-made for this particular use case: one of the challenges of generative AI is knowing whether what was created is “right”; in the context of ads what is “right” is what drives conversions. Thus Meta (and also Google) is creating an entire pipeline where a customer can specify goals and the price they are willing to pay and their desired brand appearance and message, and their advertising AI will not only figure out what customers to advertise to (and where), but also exactly how to show and articulate the ad so that it works. This gets at the last point in this excerpt: no one else can do this at the same scale, for a lack of infrastructure, data, and talent. Michael Nathanson asked Lion the follow-up callhow good Meta’s targeting was now as compared to the pre-ATT deterministic system; Li answered: So on the first question about where ROAS is relative to pre-ATT, I don’t have a comparison to give you relative to pre-ATT. In general, we think the landscape has changed so much that it’s kind of hard to know the counterfactual of what the world would look like without ATT today. But we’ve made meaningful improvements to our performance and measurement in recent periods. We believe that advertising is a relative performance gain and that we are very well-positioned here because of all of the investments we’ve made, and we’ve received consistently positive feedback from advertisers who adopt our tools. This is, at first read, an affirmation of what I have maintained all along: ATT would hurt Meta the most because it had the largest deterministic ad business, but it would also leave Meta in a stronger competitive position. FromApple and Facebook: Still, I wouldn’t count Facebook out: to the extent the company is hurt, it seems likely that the universe of 3rd-party ad tech companies that lack Facebook’s direct connection with users, both in terms of data collection and ad display, will be in far worse shape, and it is not as if the digital ecosystem — and its associated advertising — is going to disappear. Indeed, much like GDPR, the safe bet is the company with the wherewithal to make lemons out of lemonade. Notably, Apple’s alternative for app install ad campaigns, SKAdNetwork, is so limited that there is likely to be tremendous value in whatever company can create the exact sort of automated campaign creation that Facebook is already offering. While revenues have recovered, with +22% organic growth in the fourth quarter, we think that the more important driver of the outperformance has been the company’s focus on tighter cost controls. Coming in 2023, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg made a New Year’s resolution, declaring 2023 the “Year of Efficiency.” By remaining laser-focused on reining in expense growth as the top line reaccelerated, Meta’s operating margins (excluding restructuring) expanded almost +1,100 bps vs last 4Q, reaching nearly 44%. Harking back to Zuckerberg’s resolution, Meta’s 2023 was, in fact, highly efficient… Putting this in perspective, two years ago, after the warnings on the 4Q 2021 earnings call, we forecasted that Meta Family of Apps would generate $155 billion of revenues and nearly $68 billion of GAAP operating income in 2023. Fast forward to today, and last night Meta reported that Family of Apps delivered only $134.3 billion of revenues ($22 billion below our 2-year ago estimate), yet FOA operating income (adjusted for one-time expenses) was amazingly in-line with that two-year old forecast. For 2024, while we now forecast Family of Apps revenues of $151.2 billion (almost $30 billion below the forecast made on February 2, 2022), our current all-in Meta operating profit estimate of $56.8 billion is also essentially in line. In essence, Meta has emerged as a more profitable (dare we say, efficient) business. That shrunken revenue figure is digital advertising that simply disappeared — in many cases, along with the companies that bought it — in the wake of ATT. The fact that Meta responded by becoming so much leaner, though, was critical to not just surviving ATT, but also laid the groundwork for where the company is going next. We expect higher infrastructure-related costs this year. Given our increased capital investments in recent years, we expect depreciation expenses in 2024 to increase by a larger amount than in 2023. We also expect to incur higher operating costs from running a larger infrastructure footprint… We anticipate our full-year 2024 capital expenditures will be in the range of $30-37 billion, a $2 billion increase of the high end of our prior range. We expect growth will be driven by investments in servers, including both AI and non-AI hardware, and data centers as we ramp up construction on sites with our previously announced new data center architecture. Our updated outlook reflects our evolving understanding of our AI capacity demands as we anticipate what we may need for the next generations of foundational research and product development. While we are not providing guidance for years beyond 2024, we expect our ambitious long-term AI research and product development efforts will require growing infrastructure investments beyond this year. It’s hard to believe that capital costs were what broke the camel’s back in late 2022, leading to the largest stock slide of all time, even as they now are part and parcel of a result that led to the largest stock gain, but Zuckerberg certainly remembers. From Zuckerberg’s prepared remarks: I recently shared that by the end of this year we’ll have about 350k H100s and including other GPUs that’ll be around 600k H100 equivalents of compute. We’re well-positioned now because of the lessons that we learned from Reels. We initially under-built our GPU clusters for Reels, and when we were going through that I decided that we should build enough capacity to support both Reels and another Reels-sized AI service that we expected to emerge so we wouldn’t be in that situation again. And at the time the decision was somewhat controversial and we faced a lot of questions about capex spending, but I’m really glad that we did this. Remember that Meta’s stock slide happened just weeks before the release of ChatGPT, when it suddenly became a very big deal that Meta was already buying GPUs before the rest of the world suddenly wanted in. Zuckerberg was right! What Zuckerberg seems to have learned, though, is that being right isn’t always enough, at least if you want to avoid a lot of pain. Zuckerberg regularly references various “playbooks”, such as the company’s approach to monetization that I mentioned above: first iterate on the product, then invest in growth, then monetize, and then optimize. He added several other playbooks on this call, including the company’s plan to link research with product goals, its open source playbook, and its playbook for learning from data and rapid iteration — the word “playbook” appeared seven times on the call. The new playbook, though, wasn’t labeled as such, but it seemed just as premeditated: before Li announced the capital expansion plan, the company (1) announced fantastic results with expanding profitability, (2) announced an expanded stock buyback program, and (3) announced that the company would start paying a dividend for the first time. That sounds like an excellent playbook for receiving investor permission for new spending. Meta is proving itself to be a responsible caretaker of shareholder money, is giving a big chunk of it back, and is committing to a regular payment schedule. Only then is it asking to spend more for product capabilities that are already showing their worth, and this time investors were more than happy to oblige The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025