# [PODCAST] Microsoft Earnings, CoPilot and CapEx, Pichai on Risk

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/microsoft-earnings-copilot-and-capex-pichai-on-risk/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.hEVvb_gQzhNv7F5NELXKQ494n2ljdJzuDBz0fgfOZAZW6U3VuZmyfIRXv6GX-wUSTVTHG-ZvA6RO-cUWfTXo_9mM8Q10weyCqcaeDPcyOGrKOEfurBxsg45sqRDIZsK7WJQcSU8LqlKfFRBfpGQpyGrw3xuE-h5SIxsq273JIw12RiBIB0SQ5jzNEkO7T_0HksTpWqBNU_GVyG9rQPxjaXf1dYkheZ7_Yr-OK3H-oGPSc6BlM4lhX4u_S0vG6_o-uVtzQ7Y9o68OtLt6NSlE6xaiFxtO2U3bCjc03KWVmBNO8Yv7Dy3Og9XeYt4a0BuVoqKDYP9vCI-iTrNQhsRTqA
**Atlas ID**: 229720
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.955104

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMicrosoft Earnings, Copilot and CapEx, Pichai on RiskWednesday, July 31, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday I said that Microsoft did not appear to offer an easy way to exclude sites from crawling for AI inrobots.txt. However, Microsoft did announcein September 2023support for meta tags that allow webmasters to choose how content on their pages is used, including being available in search but not being available for AI training. I have updatedyesterday’s Updateto include this information; it also lends itself to a more cynical interpretation of Reddit’s actions.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its main cloud-computing business that narrowly missed expectations, causing its stock to drop during after-hours trading in the midst of investor jitters over the outlook for the artificial-intelligence boom. The tech giant’s overall sales and profit growth beat expectations in the latest quarter. But revenue for its Azure cloud business—a central part of its AI operation—rose 29%. That was below the prior quarter’s 31% growth and lagged behind analysts’ expectations it would rise by 30%, according to FactSet.Microsoft’s stock was down 2.8% in after-hours trading, a sign of how sensitive traders are to the slightest sign of weakness in the company’s all-important cloud business, which is at the heart of Chief Executive Satya Nadella’s artificial-intelligence strategy.The interesting thing about investor skittishness about Microsoft’s results is that the AI-related portions seemed mostly positive; CFO Amy Hood said in her prepared remarkson the earnings call:Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $28.5 billion, increasing 19% and 20% in constant currency, in line with expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21% and 22% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 30% in constant currency, in line with expectations and consistent with Q3 when adjusting for leap year. Azure growth included 8 points from AI services where demand remained higher than our available capacity. In June, we saw slightly lower-than-expected growth in a few European geos.In the question-and-answer section Hood emphasized that the European miss was not related to AI:Maybe I’ll just repeat it, just so people can hear it in my words as well to that 30% to 31% guide for Q4 and coming in at the lower end of 30%. You’re exactly right. The distinguishing between being at the higher end or at the lower end, really was some softness we saw in a few European geos on non-AI consumption really made the difference in that number. And we’ve assumed that going forward into H1 inclusive of my guide 28% to 29% going forward. And then let me separate which was your larger point, which is what are the other factors you see ongoing. Number one, you’re right, capacity constraints, particularly on AI and Azure will remain in Q4 and will remain in H1. So hopefully, that’s helpful.The eight points in AI-related growth is higher than last quarter’s seven points, and it seems like a good sign for capex concerns that growth was capacity constrained. Of course that shortage in capacity is downstream of capital expenditure decisions made a long time ago; the big question is if all of the spending happening now will provide a return down the road.Copilot and CapExTo that end, CEO Satya Nadella spent a lot of time on the call re-assuring investors that Microsoft had the ability to gate its capital expenditures; most of his arguments were captured in this answer to an analyst question, which I will address piece-by-piece:Let me start, and then Amy can add to this. I think, I would say we primarily start right now from the demand side. What I mean by that is what’s the product – shape of the product portfolio, what we learned even from the cloud transition, which, as you know, Keith, was similar in the sense it was both a knowledge-intensive and a capital-intensive transition. We needed to have the product portfolio where there was the right mix of, I’ll call it, infrastructure meters as well as SaaS applications. So that’s the first thing that we are looking at, and how is that value landing with customers and what’s the growth rate. So when I think about what’s happening with M365 Copilot as perhaps the best Office 365 or M365 suite we have had, the fact that we’re getting recurring customers, so our customers coming back buying more seats. So GitHub Copilot now being bigger than even GitHub when we bought it.Nadella’s argument is that Microsoft isn’t just building generic AI infrastructure, but actually building AI products; this means that Microsoft can both drive demand based on its ability to deliver those products, and, by extension, has good visibility into demand because it can see how well those products are selling. To that end, Nadella threw out a bunch of numbers with regards to AI Copilot adoption, but nothing concrete; the best thing Microsoft could do to allay investor concerns is to drop a meaningful dollar figure in terms of AI Copilot revenue contributions.What is notable is GitHub Copilot traction; from Nadella’s prepared remarks:GitHub Copilot is by far the most widely adopted AI-powered developer tool. Just over two years since its general availability, more than 77,000 organizations from BBVA, FedEx, and H&M, to Infosys and Paytm have adopted Copilot, up 180% year-over-year. And we are going further. With Copilot Workspace, we offer Copilot-native end-to-end developer productivity across plan, build, test, debug, and deploy cycle. Copilot is driving GitHub growth, all up, GitHub’s annual revenue run rate is now $2 billion. Copilot accounted for over 40% of GitHub revenue growth this year, and is already a larger business than all of GitHub was when we acquired it.I was very much in favor of the GitHub acquisition, which happened in 2018 for “only” $7.5 billion, but my expectations were modest: I wrote inan Update at the time:GitHub has a freemium business model: the vast majority of the company’s 24 million users don’t pay to host their code, which is public (that number, by the way, is likely higher than the total number of developers in the world); individual users can pay for private accounts (I have one for Stratechery’s WordPress theme files), but the biggest moneymaker is enterprise subscriptions, which of course offer privacy as well as a whole host of collaboration and security features, as well as versions of GitHub that run on private clouds. The companyat last reportswas doing about $200 million in revenue.That is certainly attractive to Microsoft, to an extent, but I suspect this is will be a purchase — presuming it goes through! — in which revenue is a bit beside the point. The implication of GitHub being used by basically all developers, if not at work than at least for their private projects, is that Microsoft now has a connection to all developers with a service that is generally beloved. That’s a big deal.In fact, it turns out that GitHub was the perfect home for what remains the most significant killer application for generative AI (GitHub Copilot); at the same time, note how little revenue GitHub had at the time of acquisition: saying that GitHub Copilot has more revenue now than the entire company had when it was acquired actually makes the case that AI revenue is still pretty low.One additional GitHub Copilot note: Nadella made the case that the overall developer workflow enabled by GitHub is the model for Office applications generally.The GitHub design system and the GitHub Copilot workspace design system, which now, for example, you start with an issue, you create a plan, from a plan, you create a spec, or you create a spec and from a spec, you create a plan and then you go operate across the full repo. That’s effectively the design system that is getting replicated inside of even the M365 Copilot.And you see this even now – for example, you get an email, you’re in sales, you want to respond to the customer. The data from the email is essentially context for a prompt but you expand by bringing in all of your CRM data, right? So this customer email is in the context of some order, all of the CRM record gets completed in context and a reply gets generated with the CRM data. That’s the type of stuff that’s already happening. Then you take something like Copilot Studio, you can start even grounding it in more data and then completing workflows. So you could say if this email comes from this customer whose order date is got a particular issue with it. You can then go and escalate it to somebody else who gets a notification in Teams.And those are the kinds of workflows that are getting built within IT or by end users themselves, what used to be line of business applications to us are Copilot extensions going forward. So we think of this as really a new design system for knowledge and frontline work to drive productivity, which would be very akin to what has happened in software engineering. So when you think about marketing or finance or sales or customer service, we will effectively replicate what you just said, which is the type of productivity we’ve seen in developers, will come to all of these functions as they think about their work, workflow and workout effect, all being driven by Copilots.I do think this is very compelling: developer workflows are significantly more productive than your typical office worker, in large part because developers have the motivation and ability to construct them. Nadella is making the case that Microsoft can build out those same sort of workflows for all knowledge workers, which certainly offers tremendous upside for Microsoft; at the same time, this is a heavy lift that will take time: this vision isn’t just about adding in a useful tool, but fundamentally changing the way people work.Back to the rest of Nadella’s answer about capex:So I would say – and obviously, the Azure AI growth, that’s the first place we look at. That then drives bulk of the CapEx spend, basically, that’s the demand signal because you got to remember, even in the capital spend, there is land and there is data center build, but 60-plus percent is the kit, that only will be bought for inferencing and everything else if there is demand signal, right? So that’s, I think, the key way to think about capital cycle even.The asset, as Amy said, is a long-term asset, which is land and the data center, which, by the way, we don’t even construct things fully, we can even have things which are semi-constructed, we call [cold] (ph) shelves and so on. So we know how to manage our CapEx spend to build out a long-term asset and a lot of the hydration of the kit happens when we have the demand signal.There is definitely spend for training. Even there, of course, we will only be scaling training as we see the demand accrue in any given period in time. So I would say it’s more important to manage, to capture the opportunity with the right product portfolio that’s driving value. And on that front, I feel good about the breadth of Microsoft offering, whether it’s in consumer side, whether it’s on commercial per seat side or on the consumption meters, that’s, I think, the fundamental driver.The argument here is that a lot of Microsoft’s spending is on land and data centers generally, and that Microsoft can wait to buy GPUs as necessary; this makes sense, but implicit in this assumption is that Microsoft can shift demand risk to chipmakers like Nvidia (and ultimately TSMC). In other words, Microsoft argues that if they need GPUs they will buy GPUs, and if they don’t they won’t. That, though, assumes that Nvidia is willing and able to somewhat sell on demand, which is incongruous both with recent GPU demand and Nvidia’s aggressiveness and control of chip allocation.Someonehas to bear the demand risk, and one of the big fights over the coming quarters will be between TSMC, Nvidia, and the hyperscalers in determining who bears the most.Pichai on RiskOne additional note on that risk question, fromGoogle’s Earnings, comes from the question-and-answer portion ofGoogle’s Earnings Call:Hi, everybody. Just two questions on the AI CapEx. So it looks like from the outside at least, the hyperscaler industry is going from kind of an underbuilt situation this time last year to better meeting the demand with capacity right now to potentially being overbuilt next year if these CapEx growth rates keep up. So do you think that’s a fair characterization? And how are we thinking about the return on invested capital with this AI CapEx cycle…Sundar Pichai:Thanks Ross. I think great questions. Look, obviously, we are at an early stage of what I view as a very transformative era and in ,technology when you are going through these transitions, aggressively investing upfront in a defining category, particularly in an area in which in a leveraged way cuts across all our core areas our products, including Search, YouTube and other services, as well as fuels growth in Cloud and supports the innovative long-term Bets and Other Bets is definitely something that for us makes sense to lean in.I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over-investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside. Having said that, we obsess around every dollar we put in. Our teams work super hard, I’m proud of the efficiency work, be it optimization of hardware, software, model deployment across our fleet. All of that is something we spend a lot of time on, and that’s how we think about it.This, like Microsoft’s implicit assumption it can offload risk to Nvidia, makes sense in theory: the only downside to Google’s massive increase in capex is buying equipment it will eventually use for other purposes. And, it should be noted, that Google has very real internal use cases for AI, both in terms of its core products and also increased monetization opportunities for things like advertising (I expect programmatic generative AI ads to be the second big use case for this technology, after programming, to Google and Meta’s benefit).The true risk, though, is that these investment decisions are not being made in a vacuum: all of the hyperscalers are using the same sort of justification for their investment. In other words, if revenue-driving use cases do not materialize, it’s not just Google or Microsoft or Amazon that will have excess capacity individually, but rather all of them all at the same time. This would certainly be good for 3rd-parties looking to get capacity from the hyperscalers; it also explains why Nadella’s response to questions about capex was focused on the importance of Microsoft developing its own products that can utilize that capacity (or, to put it another way, it is arguably AWS —not Meta— that is running the biggest risk amongst the hyperscalers because its build-out is primarily for 3rd-party developers).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 20252025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Reddit’s Robots.txt, The Reddit Perspective, Google ContractsApple Earnings, Meta Earnings→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Microsoft Earnings, Copilot and CapEx, Pichai on RiskWednesday, July 31, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday I said that Microsoft did not appear to offer an easy way to exclude sites from crawling for AI inrobots.txt. However, Microsoft did announcein September 2023support for meta tags that allow webmasters to choose how content on their pages is used, including being available in search but not being available for AI training. I have updatedyesterday’s Updateto include this information; it also lends itself to a more cynical interpretation of Reddit’s actions.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its main cloud-computing business that narrowly missed expectations, causing its stock to drop during after-hours trading in the midst of investor jitters over the outlook for the artificial-intelligence boom. The tech giant’s overall sales and profit growth beat expectations in the latest quarter. But revenue for its Azure cloud business—a central part of its AI operation—rose 29%. That was below the prior quarter’s 31% growth and lagged behind analysts’ expectations it would rise by 30%, according to FactSet.Microsoft’s stock was down 2.8% in after-hours trading, a sign of how sensitive traders are to the slightest sign of weakness in the company’s all-important cloud business, which is at the heart of Chief Executive Satya Nadella’s artificial-intelligence strategy.The interesting thing about investor skittishness about Microsoft’s results is that the AI-related portions seemed mostly positive; CFO Amy Hood said in her prepared remarkson the earnings call:Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $28.5 billion, increasing 19% and 20% in constant currency, in line with expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21% and 22% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 30% in constant currency, in line with expectations and consistent with Q3 when adjusting for leap year. Azure growth included 8 points from AI services where demand remained higher than our available capacity. In June, we saw slightly lower-than-expected growth in a few European geos.In the question-and-answer section Hood emphasized that the European miss was not related to AI:Maybe I’ll just repeat it, just so people can hear it in my words as well to that 30% to 31% guide for Q4 and coming in at the lower end of 30%. You’re exactly right. The distinguishing between being at the higher end or at the lower end, really was some softness we saw in a few European geos on non-AI consumption really made the difference in that number. And we’ve assumed that going forward into H1 inclusive of my guide 28% to 29% going forward. And then let me separate which was your larger point, which is what are the other factors you see ongoing. Number one, you’re right, capacity constraints, particularly on AI and Azure will remain in Q4 and will remain in H1. So hopefully, that’s helpful.The eight points in AI-related growth is higher than last quarter’s seven points, and it seems like a good sign for capex concerns that growth was capacity constrained. Of course that shortage in capacity is downstream of capital expenditure decisions made a long time ago; the big question is if all of the spending happening now will provide a return down the road.Copilot and CapExTo that end, CEO Satya Nadella spent a lot of time on the call re-assuring investors that Microsoft had the ability to gate its capital expenditures; most of his arguments were captured in this answer to an analyst question, which I will address piece-by-piece:Let me start, and then Amy can add to this. I think, I would say we primarily start right now from the demand side. What I mean by that is what’s the product – shape of the product portfolio, what we learned even from the cloud transition, which, as you know, Keith, was similar in the sense it was both a knowledge-intensive and a capital-intensive transition. We needed to have the product portfolio where there was the right mix of, I’ll call it, infrastructure meters as well as SaaS applications. So that’s the first thing that we are looking at, and how is that value landing with customers and what’s the growth rate. So when I think about what’s happening with M365 Copilot as perhaps the best Office 365 or M365 suite we have had, the fact that we’re getting recurring customers, so our customers coming back buying more seats. So GitHub Copilot now being bigger than even GitHub when we bought it.Nadella’s argument is that Microsoft isn’t just building generic AI infrastructure, but actually building AI products; this means that Microsoft can both drive demand based on its ability to deliver those products, and, by extension, has good visibility into demand because it can see how well those products are selling. To that end, Nadella threw out a bunch of numbers with regards to AI Copilot adoption, but nothing concrete; the best thing Microsoft could do to allay investor concerns is to drop a meaningful dollar figure in terms of AI Copilot revenue contributions.What is notable is GitHub Copilot traction; from Nadella’s prepared remarks:GitHub Copilot is by far the most widely adopted AI-powered developer tool. Just over two years since its general availability, more than 77,000 organizations from BBVA, FedEx, and H&M, to Infosys and Paytm have adopted Copilot, up 180% year-over-year. And we are going further. With Copilot Workspace, we offer Copilot-native end-to-end developer productivity across plan, build, test, debug, and deploy cycle. Copilot is driving GitHub growth, all up, GitHub’s annual revenue run rate is now $2 billion. Copilot accounted for over 40% of GitHub revenue growth this year, and is already a larger business than all of GitHub was when we acquired it.I was very much in favor of the GitHub acquisition, which happened in 2018 for “only” $7.5 billion, but my expectations were modest: I wrote inan Update at the time:GitHub has a freemium business model: the vast majority of the company’s 24 million users don’t pay to host their code, which is public (that number, by the way, is likely higher than the total number of developers in the world); individual users can pay for private accounts (I have one for Stratechery’s WordPress theme files), but the biggest moneymaker is enterprise subscriptions, which of course offer privacy as well as a whole host of collaboration and security features, as well as versions of GitHub that run on private clouds. The companyat last reportswas doing about $200 million in revenue.That is certainly attractive to Microsoft, to an extent, but I suspect this is will be a purchase — presuming it goes through! — in which revenue is a bit beside the point. The implication of GitHub being used by basically all developers, if not at work than at least for their private projects, is that Microsoft now has a connection to all developers with a service that is generally beloved. That’s a big deal.In fact, it turns out that GitHub was the perfect home for what remains the most significant killer application for generative AI (GitHub Copilot); at the same time, note how little revenue GitHub had at the time of acquisition: saying that GitHub Copilot has more revenue now than the entire company had when it was acquired actually makes the case that AI revenue is still pretty low.One additional GitHub Copilot note: Nadella made the case that the overall developer workflow enabled by GitHub is the model for Office applications generally.The GitHub design system and the GitHub Copilot workspace design system, which now, for example, you start with an issue, you create a plan, from a plan, you create a spec, or you create a spec and from a spec, you create a plan and then you go operate across the full repo. That’s effectively the design system that is getting replicated inside of even the M365 Copilot.And you see this even now – for example, you get an email, you’re in sales, you want to respond to the customer. The data from the email is essentially context for a prompt but you expand by bringing in all of your CRM data, right? So this customer email is in the context of some order, all of the CRM record gets completed in context and a reply gets generated with the CRM data. That’s the type of stuff that’s already happening. Then you take something like Copilot Studio, you can start even grounding it in more data and then completing workflows. So you could say if this email comes from this customer whose order date is got a particular issue with it. You can then go and escalate it to somebody else who gets a notification in Teams.And those are the kinds of workflows that are getting built within IT or by end users themselves, what used to be line of business applications to us are Copilot extensions going forward. So we think of this as really a new design system for knowledge and frontline work to drive productivity, which would be very akin to what has happened in software engineering. So when you think about marketing or finance or sales or customer service, we will effectively replicate what you just said, which is the type of productivity we’ve seen in developers, will come to all of these functions as they think about their work, workflow and workout effect, all being driven by Copilots.I do think this is very compelling: developer workflows are significantly more productive than your typical office worker, in large part because developers have the motivation and ability to construct them. Nadella is making the case that Microsoft can build out those same sort of workflows for all knowledge workers, which certainly offers tremendous upside for Microsoft; at the same time, this is a heavy lift that will take time: this vision isn’t just about adding in a useful tool, but fundamentally changing the way people work.Back to the rest of Nadella’s answer about capex:So I would say – and obviously, the Azure AI growth, that’s the first place we look at. That then drives bulk of the CapEx spend, basically, that’s the demand signal because you got to remember, even in the capital spend, there is land and there is data center build, but 60-plus percent is the kit, that only will be bought for inferencing and everything else if there is demand signal, right? So that’s, I think, the key way to think about capital cycle even.The asset, as Amy said, is a long-term asset, which is land and the data center, which, by the way, we don’t even construct things fully, we can even have things which are semi-constructed, we call [cold] (ph) shelves and so on. So we know how to manage our CapEx spend to build out a long-term asset and a lot of the hydration of the kit happens when we have the demand signal.There is definitely spend for training. Even there, of course, we will only be scaling training as we see the demand accrue in any given period in time. So I would say it’s more important to manage, to capture the opportunity with the right product portfolio that’s driving value. And on that front, I feel good about the breadth of Microsoft offering, whether it’s in consumer side, whether it’s on commercial per seat side or on the consumption meters, that’s, I think, the fundamental driver.The argument here is that a lot of Microsoft’s spending is on land and data centers generally, and that Microsoft can wait to buy GPUs as necessary; this makes sense, but implicit in this assumption is that Microsoft can shift demand risk to chipmakers like Nvidia (and ultimately TSMC). In other words, Microsoft argues that if they need GPUs they will buy GPUs, and if they don’t they won’t. That, though, assumes that Nvidia is willing and able to somewhat sell on demand, which is incongruous both with recent GPU demand and Nvidia’s aggressiveness and control of chip allocation.Someonehas to bear the demand risk, and one of the big fights over the coming quarters will be between TSMC, Nvidia, and the hyperscalers in determining who bears the most.Pichai on RiskOne additional note on that risk question, fromGoogle’s Earnings, comes from the question-and-answer portion ofGoogle’s Earnings Call:Hi, everybody. Just two questions on the AI CapEx. So it looks like from the outside at least, the hyperscaler industry is going from kind of an underbuilt situation this time last year to better meeting the demand with capacity right now to potentially being overbuilt next year if these CapEx growth rates keep up. So do you think that’s a fair characterization? And how are we thinking about the return on invested capital with this AI CapEx cycle…Sundar Pichai:Thanks Ross. I think great questions. Look, obviously, we are at an early stage of what I view as a very transformative era and in ,technology when you are going through these transitions, aggressively investing upfront in a defining category, particularly in an area in which in a leveraged way cuts across all our core areas our products, including Search, YouTube and other services, as well as fuels growth in Cloud and supports the innovative long-term Bets and Other Bets is definitely something that for us makes sense to lean in.I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over-investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside. Having said that, we obsess around every dollar we put in. Our teams work super hard, I’m proud of the efficiency work, be it optimization of hardware, software, model deployment across our fleet. All of that is something we spend a lot of time on, and that’s how we think about it.This, like Microsoft’s implicit assumption it can offload risk to Nvidia, makes sense in theory: the only downside to Google’s massive increase in capex is buying equipment it will eventually use for other purposes. And, it should be noted, that Google has very real internal use cases for AI, both in terms of its core products and also increased monetization opportunities for things like advertising (I expect programmatic generative AI ads to be the second big use case for this technology, after programming, to Google and Meta’s benefit).The true risk, though, is that these investment decisions are not being made in a vacuum: all of the hyperscalers are using the same sort of justification for their investment. In other words, if revenue-driving use cases do not materialize, it’s not just Google or Microsoft or Amazon that will have excess capacity individually, but rather all of them all at the same time. This would certainly be good for 3rd-parties looking to get capacity from the hyperscalers; it also explains why Nadella’s response to questions about capex was focused on the importance of Microsoft developing its own products that can utilize that capacity (or, to put it another way, it is arguably AWS —not Meta— that is running the biggest risk amongst the hyperscalers because its build-out is primarily for 3rd-party developers).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 20252025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Reddit’s Robots.txt, The Reddit Perspective, Google ContractsApple Earnings, Meta Earnings→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Microsoft Earnings, Copilot and CapEx, Pichai on RiskWednesday, July 31, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday I said that Microsoft did not appear to offer an easy way to exclude sites from crawling for AI inrobots.txt. However, Microsoft did announcein September 2023support for meta tags that allow webmasters to choose how content on their pages is used, including being available in search but not being available for AI training. I have updatedyesterday’s Updateto include this information; it also lends itself to a more cynical interpretation of Reddit’s actions.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its main cloud-computing business that narrowly missed expectations, causing its stock to drop during after-hours trading in the midst of investor jitters over the outlook for the artificial-intelligence boom. The tech giant’s overall sales and profit growth beat expectations in the latest quarter. But revenue for its Azure cloud business—a central part of its AI operation—rose 29%. That was below the prior quarter’s 31% growth and lagged behind analysts’ expectations it would rise by 30%, according to FactSet.Microsoft’s stock was down 2.8% in after-hours trading, a sign of how sensitive traders are to the slightest sign of weakness in the company’s all-important cloud business, which is at the heart of Chief Executive Satya Nadella’s artificial-intelligence strategy.The interesting thing about investor skittishness about Microsoft’s results is that the AI-related portions seemed mostly positive; CFO Amy Hood said in her prepared remarkson the earnings call:Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $28.5 billion, increasing 19% and 20% in constant currency, in line with expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21% and 22% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 30% in constant currency, in line with expectations and consistent with Q3 when adjusting for leap year. Azure growth included 8 points from AI services where demand remained higher than our available capacity. In June, we saw slightly lower-than-expected growth in a few European geos.In the question-and-answer section Hood emphasized that the European miss was not related to AI:Maybe I’ll just repeat it, just so people can hear it in my words as well to that 30% to 31% guide for Q4 and coming in at the lower end of 30%. You’re exactly right. The distinguishing between being at the higher end or at the lower end, really was some softness we saw in a few European geos on non-AI consumption really made the difference in that number. And we’ve assumed that going forward into H1 inclusive of my guide 28% to 29% going forward. And then let me separate which was your larger point, which is what are the other factors you see ongoing. Number one, you’re right, capacity constraints, particularly on AI and Azure will remain in Q4 and will remain in H1. So hopefully, that’s helpful.The eight points in AI-related growth is higher than last quarter’s seven points, and it seems like a good sign for capex concerns that growth was capacity constrained. Of course that shortage in capacity is downstream of capital expenditure decisions made a long time ago; the big question is if all of the spending happening now will provide a return down the road.Copilot and CapExTo that end, CEO Satya Nadella spent a lot of time on the call re-assuring investors that Microsoft had the ability to gate its capital expenditures; most of his arguments were captured in this answer to an analyst question, which I will address piece-by-piece:Let me start, and then Amy can add to this. I think, I would say we primarily start right now from the demand side. What I mean by that is what’s the product – shape of the product portfolio, what we learned even from the cloud transition, which, as you know, Keith, was similar in the sense it was both a knowledge-intensive and a capital-intensive transition. We needed to have the product portfolio where there was the right mix of, I’ll call it, infrastructure meters as well as SaaS applications. So that’s the first thing that we are looking at, and how is that value landing with customers and what’s the growth rate. So when I think about what’s happening with M365 Copilot as perhaps the best Office 365 or M365 suite we have had, the fact that we’re getting recurring customers, so our customers coming back buying more seats. So GitHub Copilot now being bigger than even GitHub when we bought it.Nadella’s argument is that Microsoft isn’t just building generic AI infrastructure, but actually building AI products; this means that Microsoft can both drive demand based on its ability to deliver those products, and, by extension, has good visibility into demand because it can see how well those products are selling. To that end, Nadella threw out a bunch of numbers with regards to AI Copilot adoption, but nothing concrete; the best thing Microsoft could do to allay investor concerns is to drop a meaningful dollar figure in terms of AI Copilot revenue contributions.What is notable is GitHub Copilot traction; from Nadella’s prepared remarks:GitHub Copilot is by far the most widely adopted AI-powered developer tool. Just over two years since its general availability, more than 77,000 organizations from BBVA, FedEx, and H&M, to Infosys and Paytm have adopted Copilot, up 180% year-over-year. And we are going further. With Copilot Workspace, we offer Copilot-native end-to-end developer productivity across plan, build, test, debug, and deploy cycle. Copilot is driving GitHub growth, all up, GitHub’s annual revenue run rate is now $2 billion. Copilot accounted for over 40% of GitHub revenue growth this year, and is already a larger business than all of GitHub was when we acquired it.I was very much in favor of the GitHub acquisition, which happened in 2018 for “only” $7.5 billion, but my expectations were modest: I wrote inan Update at the time:GitHub has a freemium business model: the vast majority of the company’s 24 million users don’t pay to host their code, which is public (that number, by the way, is likely higher than the total number of developers in the world); individual users can pay for private accounts (I have one for Stratechery’s WordPress theme files), but the biggest moneymaker is enterprise subscriptions, which of course offer privacy as well as a whole host of collaboration and security features, as well as versions of GitHub that run on private clouds. The companyat last reportswas doing about $200 million in revenue.That is certainly attractive to Microsoft, to an extent, but I suspect this is will be a purchase — presuming it goes through! — in which revenue is a bit beside the point. The implication of GitHub being used by basically all developers, if not at work than at least for their private projects, is that Microsoft now has a connection to all developers with a service that is generally beloved. That’s a big deal.In fact, it turns out that GitHub was the perfect home for what remains the most significant killer application for generative AI (GitHub Copilot); at the same time, note how little revenue GitHub had at the time of acquisition: saying that GitHub Copilot has more revenue now than the entire company had when it was acquired actually makes the case that AI revenue is still pretty low.One additional GitHub Copilot note: Nadella made the case that the overall developer workflow enabled by GitHub is the model for Office applications generally.The GitHub design system and the GitHub Copilot workspace design system, which now, for example, you start with an issue, you create a plan, from a plan, you create a spec, or you create a spec and from a spec, you create a plan and then you go operate across the full repo. That’s effectively the design system that is getting replicated inside of even the M365 Copilot.And you see this even now – for example, you get an email, you’re in sales, you want to respond to the customer. The data from the email is essentially context for a prompt but you expand by bringing in all of your CRM data, right? So this customer email is in the context of some order, all of the CRM record gets completed in context and a reply gets generated with the CRM data. That’s the type of stuff that’s already happening. Then you take something like Copilot Studio, you can start even grounding it in more data and then completing workflows. So you could say if this email comes from this customer whose order date is got a particular issue with it. You can then go and escalate it to somebody else who gets a notification in Teams.And those are the kinds of workflows that are getting built within IT or by end users themselves, what used to be line of business applications to us are Copilot extensions going forward. So we think of this as really a new design system for knowledge and frontline work to drive productivity, which would be very akin to what has happened in software engineering. So when you think about marketing or finance or sales or customer service, we will effectively replicate what you just said, which is the type of productivity we’ve seen in developers, will come to all of these functions as they think about their work, workflow and workout effect, all being driven by Copilots.I do think this is very compelling: developer workflows are significantly more productive than your typical office worker, in large part because developers have the motivation and ability to construct them. Nadella is making the case that Microsoft can build out those same sort of workflows for all knowledge workers, which certainly offers tremendous upside for Microsoft; at the same time, this is a heavy lift that will take time: this vision isn’t just about adding in a useful tool, but fundamentally changing the way people work.Back to the rest of Nadella’s answer about capex:So I would say – and obviously, the Azure AI growth, that’s the first place we look at. That then drives bulk of the CapEx spend, basically, that’s the demand signal because you got to remember, even in the capital spend, there is land and there is data center build, but 60-plus percent is the kit, that only will be bought for inferencing and everything else if there is demand signal, right? So that’s, I think, the key way to think about capital cycle even.The asset, as Amy said, is a long-term asset, which is land and the data center, which, by the way, we don’t even construct things fully, we can even have things which are semi-constructed, we call [cold] (ph) shelves and so on. So we know how to manage our CapEx spend to build out a long-term asset and a lot of the hydration of the kit happens when we have the demand signal.There is definitely spend for training. Even there, of course, we will only be scaling training as we see the demand accrue in any given period in time. So I would say it’s more important to manage, to capture the opportunity with the right product portfolio that’s driving value. And on that front, I feel good about the breadth of Microsoft offering, whether it’s in consumer side, whether it’s on commercial per seat side or on the consumption meters, that’s, I think, the fundamental driver.The argument here is that a lot of Microsoft’s spending is on land and data centers generally, and that Microsoft can wait to buy GPUs as necessary; this makes sense, but implicit in this assumption is that Microsoft can shift demand risk to chipmakers like Nvidia (and ultimately TSMC). In other words, Microsoft argues that if they need GPUs they will buy GPUs, and if they don’t they won’t. That, though, assumes that Nvidia is willing and able to somewhat sell on demand, which is incongruous both with recent GPU demand and Nvidia’s aggressiveness and control of chip allocation.Someonehas to bear the demand risk, and one of the big fights over the coming quarters will be between TSMC, Nvidia, and the hyperscalers in determining who bears the most.Pichai on RiskOne additional note on that risk question, fromGoogle’s Earnings, comes from the question-and-answer portion ofGoogle’s Earnings Call:Hi, everybody. Just two questions on the AI CapEx. So it looks like from the outside at least, the hyperscaler industry is going from kind of an underbuilt situation this time last year to better meeting the demand with capacity right now to potentially being overbuilt next year if these CapEx growth rates keep up. So do you think that’s a fair characterization? And how are we thinking about the return on invested capital with this AI CapEx cycle…Sundar Pichai:Thanks Ross. I think great questions. Look, obviously, we are at an early stage of what I view as a very transformative era and in ,technology when you are going through these transitions, aggressively investing upfront in a defining category, particularly in an area in which in a leveraged way cuts across all our core areas our products, including Search, YouTube and other services, as well as fuels growth in Cloud and supports the innovative long-term Bets and Other Bets is definitely something that for us makes sense to lean in.I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over-investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside. Having said that, we obsess around every dollar we put in. Our teams work super hard, I’m proud of the efficiency work, be it optimization of hardware, software, model deployment across our fleet. All of that is something we spend a lot of time on, and that’s how we think about it.This, like Microsoft’s implicit assumption it can offload risk to Nvidia, makes sense in theory: the only downside to Google’s massive increase in capex is buying equipment it will eventually use for other purposes. And, it should be noted, that Google has very real internal use cases for AI, both in terms of its core products and also increased monetization opportunities for things like advertising (I expect programmatic generative AI ads to be the second big use case for this technology, after programming, to Google and Meta’s benefit).The true risk, though, is that these investment decisions are not being made in a vacuum: all of the hyperscalers are using the same sort of justification for their investment. In other words, if revenue-driving use cases do not materialize, it’s not just Google or Microsoft or Amazon that will have excess capacity individually, but rather all of them all at the same time. This would certainly be good for 3rd-parties looking to get capacity from the hyperscalers; it also explains why Nadella’s response to questions about capex was focused on the importance of Microsoft developing its own products that can utilize that capacity (or, to put it another way, it is arguably AWS —not Meta— that is running the biggest risk amongst the hyperscalers because its build-out is primarily for 3rd-party developers).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 20252025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Reddit’s Robots.txt, The Reddit Perspective, Google ContractsApple Earnings, Meta Earnings→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Yesterday I said that Microsoft did not appear to offer an easy way to exclude sites from crawling for AI inrobots.txt. However, Microsoft did announcein September 2023support for meta tags that allow webmasters to choose how content on their pages is used, including being available in search but not being available for AI training. I have updatedyesterday’s Updateto include this information; it also lends itself to a more cynical interpretation of Reddit’s actions.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Microsoft reported growth in its main cloud-computing business that narrowly missed expectations, causing its stock to drop during after-hours trading in the midst of investor jitters over the outlook for the artificial-intelligence boom. The tech giant’s overall sales and profit growth beat expectations in the latest quarter. But revenue for its Azure cloud business—a central part of its AI operation—rose 29%. That was below the prior quarter’s 31% growth and lagged behind analysts’ expectations it would rise by 30%, according to FactSet.Microsoft’s stock was down 2.8% in after-hours trading, a sign of how sensitive traders are to the slightest sign of weakness in the company’s all-important cloud business, which is at the heart of Chief Executive Satya Nadella’s artificial-intelligence strategy.The interesting thing about investor skittishness about Microsoft’s results is that the AI-related portions seemed mostly positive; CFO Amy Hood said in her prepared remarkson the earnings call:Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $28.5 billion, increasing 19% and 20% in constant currency, in line with expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21% and 22% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 30% in constant currency, in line with expectations and consistent with Q3 when adjusting for leap year. Azure growth included 8 points from AI services where demand remained higher than our available capacity. In June, we saw slightly lower-than-expected growth in a few European geos.In the question-and-answer section Hood emphasized that the European miss was not related to AI:Maybe I’ll just repeat it, just so people can hear it in my words as well to that 30% to 31% guide for Q4 and coming in at the lower end of 30%. You’re exactly right. The distinguishing between being at the higher end or at the lower end, really was some softness we saw in a few European geos on non-AI consumption really made the difference in that number. And we’ve assumed that going forward into H1 inclusive of my guide 28% to 29% going forward. And then let me separate which was your larger point, which is what are the other factors you see ongoing. Number one, you’re right, capacity constraints, particularly on AI and Azure will remain in Q4 and will remain in H1. So hopefully, that’s helpful.The eight points in AI-related growth is higher than last quarter’s seven points, and it seems like a good sign for capex concerns that growth was capacity constrained. Of course that shortage in capacity is downstream of capital expenditure decisions made a long time ago; the big question is if all of the spending happening now will provide a return down the road.Copilot and CapExTo that end, CEO Satya Nadella spent a lot of time on the call re-assuring investors that Microsoft had the ability to gate its capital expenditures; most of his arguments were captured in this answer to an analyst question, which I will address piece-by-piece:Let me start, and then Amy can add to this. I think, I would say we primarily start right now from the demand side. What I mean by that is what’s the product – shape of the product portfolio, what we learned even from the cloud transition, which, as you know, Keith, was similar in the sense it was both a knowledge-intensive and a capital-intensive transition. We needed to have the product portfolio where there was the right mix of, I’ll call it, infrastructure meters as well as SaaS applications. So that’s the first thing that we are looking at, and how is that value landing with customers and what’s the growth rate. So when I think about what’s happening with M365 Copilot as perhaps the best Office 365 or M365 suite we have had, the fact that we’re getting recurring customers, so our customers coming back buying more seats. So GitHub Copilot now being bigger than even GitHub when we bought it.Nadella’s argument is that Microsoft isn’t just building generic AI infrastructure, but actually building AI products; this means that Microsoft can both drive demand based on its ability to deliver those products, and, by extension, has good visibility into demand because it can see how well those products are selling. To that end, Nadella threw out a bunch of numbers with regards to AI Copilot adoption, but nothing concrete; the best thing Microsoft could do to allay investor concerns is to drop a meaningful dollar figure in terms of AI Copilot revenue contributions.What is notable is GitHub Copilot traction; from Nadella’s prepared remarks:GitHub Copilot is by far the most widely adopted AI-powered developer tool. Just over two years since its general availability, more than 77,000 organizations from BBVA, FedEx, and H&M, to Infosys and Paytm have adopted Copilot, up 180% year-over-year. And we are going further. With Copilot Workspace, we offer Copilot-native end-to-end developer productivity across plan, build, test, debug, and deploy cycle. Copilot is driving GitHub growth, all up, GitHub’s annual revenue run rate is now $2 billion. Copilot accounted for over 40% of GitHub revenue growth this year, and is already a larger business than all of GitHub was when we acquired it.I was very much in favor of the GitHub acquisition, which happened in 2018 for “only” $7.5 billion, but my expectations were modest: I wrote inan Update at the time:GitHub has a freemium business model: the vast majority of the company’s 24 million users don’t pay to host their code, which is public (that number, by the way, is likely higher than the total number of developers in the world); individual users can pay for private accounts (I have one for Stratechery’s WordPress theme files), but the biggest moneymaker is enterprise subscriptions, which of course offer privacy as well as a whole host of collaboration and security features, as well as versions of GitHub that run on private clouds. The companyat last reportswas doing about $200 million in revenue.That is certainly attractive to Microsoft, to an extent, but I suspect this is will be a purchase — presuming it goes through! — in which revenue is a bit beside the point. The implication of GitHub being used by basically all developers, if not at work than at least for their private projects, is that Microsoft now has a connection to all developers with a service that is generally beloved. That’s a big deal.In fact, it turns out that GitHub was the perfect home for what remains the most significant killer application for generative AI (GitHub Copilot); at the same time, note how little revenue GitHub had at the time of acquisition: saying that GitHub Copilot has more revenue now than the entire company had when it was acquired actually makes the case that AI revenue is still pretty low.One additional GitHub Copilot note: Nadella made the case that the overall developer workflow enabled by GitHub is the model for Office applications generally.The GitHub design system and the GitHub Copilot workspace design system, which now, for example, you start with an issue, you create a plan, from a plan, you create a spec, or you create a spec and from a spec, you create a plan and then you go operate across the full repo. That’s effectively the design system that is getting replicated inside of even the M365 Copilot.And you see this even now – for example, you get an email, you’re in sales, you want to respond to the customer. The data from the email is essentially context for a prompt but you expand by bringing in all of your CRM data, right? So this customer email is in the context of some order, all of the CRM record gets completed in context and a reply gets generated with the CRM data. That’s the type of stuff that’s already happening. Then you take something like Copilot Studio, you can start even grounding it in more data and then completing workflows. So you could say if this email comes from this customer whose order date is got a particular issue with it. You can then go and escalate it to somebody else who gets a notification in Teams.And those are the kinds of workflows that are getting built within IT or by end users themselves, what used to be line of business applications to us are Copilot extensions going forward. So we think of this as really a new design system for knowledge and frontline work to drive productivity, which would be very akin to what has happened in software engineering. So when you think about marketing or finance or sales or customer service, we will effectively replicate what you just said, which is the type of productivity we’ve seen in developers, will come to all of these functions as they think about their work, workflow and workout effect, all being driven by Copilots.I do think this is very compelling: developer workflows are significantly more productive than your typical office worker, in large part because developers have the motivation and ability to construct them. Nadella is making the case that Microsoft can build out those same sort of workflows for all knowledge workers, which certainly offers tremendous upside for Microsoft; at the same time, this is a heavy lift that will take time: this vision isn’t just about adding in a useful tool, but fundamentally changing the way people work.Back to the rest of Nadella’s answer about capex:So I would say – and obviously, the Azure AI growth, that’s the first place we look at. That then drives bulk of the CapEx spend, basically, that’s the demand signal because you got to remember, even in the capital spend, there is land and there is data center build, but 60-plus percent is the kit, that only will be bought for inferencing and everything else if there is demand signal, right? So that’s, I think, the key way to think about capital cycle even.The asset, as Amy said, is a long-term asset, which is land and the data center, which, by the way, we don’t even construct things fully, we can even have things which are semi-constructed, we call [cold] (ph) shelves and so on. So we know how to manage our CapEx spend to build out a long-term asset and a lot of the hydration of the kit happens when we have the demand signal.There is definitely spend for training. Even there, of course, we will only be scaling training as we see the demand accrue in any given period in time. So I would say it’s more important to manage, to capture the opportunity with the right product portfolio that’s driving value. And on that front, I feel good about the breadth of Microsoft offering, whether it’s in consumer side, whether it’s on commercial per seat side or on the consumption meters, that’s, I think, the fundamental driver.The argument here is that a lot of Microsoft’s spending is on land and data centers generally, and that Microsoft can wait to buy GPUs as necessary; this makes sense, but implicit in this assumption is that Microsoft can shift demand risk to chipmakers like Nvidia (and ultimately TSMC). In other words, Microsoft argues that if they need GPUs they will buy GPUs, and if they don’t they won’t. That, though, assumes that Nvidia is willing and able to somewhat sell on demand, which is incongruous both with recent GPU demand and Nvidia’s aggressiveness and control of chip allocation.Someonehas to bear the demand risk, and one of the big fights over the coming quarters will be between TSMC, Nvidia, and the hyperscalers in determining who bears the most.Pichai on RiskOne additional note on that risk question, fromGoogle’s Earnings, comes from the question-and-answer portion ofGoogle’s Earnings Call:Hi, everybody. Just two questions on the AI CapEx. So it looks like from the outside at least, the hyperscaler industry is going from kind of an underbuilt situation this time last year to better meeting the demand with capacity right now to potentially being overbuilt next year if these CapEx growth rates keep up. So do you think that’s a fair characterization? And how are we thinking about the return on invested capital with this AI CapEx cycle…Sundar Pichai:Thanks Ross. I think great questions. Look, obviously, we are at an early stage of what I view as a very transformative era and in ,technology when you are going through these transitions, aggressively investing upfront in a defining category, particularly in an area in which in a leveraged way cuts across all our core areas our products, including Search, YouTube and other services, as well as fuels growth in Cloud and supports the innovative long-term Bets and Other Bets is definitely something that for us makes sense to lean in.I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over-investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside. Having said that, we obsess around every dollar we put in. Our teams work super hard, I’m proud of the efficiency work, be it optimization of hardware, software, model deployment across our fleet. All of that is something we spend a lot of time on, and that’s how we think about it.This, like Microsoft’s implicit assumption it can offload risk to Nvidia, makes sense in theory: the only downside to Google’s massive increase in capex is buying equipment it will eventually use for other purposes. And, it should be noted, that Google has very real internal use cases for AI, both in terms of its core products and also increased monetization opportunities for things like advertising (I expect programmatic generative AI ads to be the second big use case for this technology, after programming, to Google and Meta’s benefit).The true risk, though, is that these investment decisions are not being made in a vacuum: all of the hyperscalers are using the same sort of justification for their investment. In other words, if revenue-driving use cases do not materialize, it’s not just Google or Microsoft or Amazon that will have excess capacity individually, but rather all of them all at the same time. This would certainly be good for 3rd-parties looking to get capacity from the hyperscalers; it also explains why Nadella’s response to questions about capex was focused on the importance of Microsoft developing its own products that can utilize that capacity (or, to put it another way, it is arguably AWS —not Meta— that is running the biggest risk amongst the hyperscalers because its build-out is primarily for 3rd-party developers).This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Yesterday I said that Microsoft did not appear to offer an easy way to exclude sites from crawling for AI inrobots.txt. However, Microsoft did announcein September 2023support for meta tags that allow webmasters to choose how content on their pages is used, including being available in search but not being available for AI training. I have updatedyesterday’s Updateto include this information; it also lends itself to a more cynical interpretation of Reddit’s actions. Microsoft reported growth in its main cloud-computing business that narrowly missed expectations, causing its stock to drop during after-hours trading in the midst of investor jitters over the outlook for the artificial-intelligence boom. The tech giant’s overall sales and profit growth beat expectations in the latest quarter. But revenue for its Azure cloud business—a central part of its AI operation—rose 29%. That was below the prior quarter’s 31% growth and lagged behind analysts’ expectations it would rise by 30%, according to FactSet. Microsoft’s stock was down 2.8% in after-hours trading, a sign of how sensitive traders are to the slightest sign of weakness in the company’s all-important cloud business, which is at the heart of Chief Executive Satya Nadella’s artificial-intelligence strategy. Next, the Intelligent Cloud segment. Revenue was $28.5 billion, increasing 19% and 20% in constant currency, in line with expectations. Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21% and 22% in constant currency. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 30% in constant currency, in line with expectations and consistent with Q3 when adjusting for leap year. Azure growth included 8 points from AI services where demand remained higher than our available capacity. In June, we saw slightly lower-than-expected growth in a few European geos. Maybe I’ll just repeat it, just so people can hear it in my words as well to that 30% to 31% guide for Q4 and coming in at the lower end of 30%. You’re exactly right. The distinguishing between being at the higher end or at the lower end, really was some softness we saw in a few European geos on non-AI consumption really made the difference in that number. And we’ve assumed that going forward into H1 inclusive of my guide 28% to 29% going forward. And then let me separate which was your larger point, which is what are the other factors you see ongoing. Number one, you’re right, capacity constraints, particularly on AI and Azure will remain in Q4 and will remain in H1. So hopefully, that’s helpful. The eight points in AI-related growth is higher than last quarter’s seven points, and it seems like a good sign for capex concerns that growth was capacity constrained. Of course that shortage in capacity is downstream of capital expenditure decisions made a long time ago; the big question is if all of the spending happening now will provide a return down the road. To that end, CEO Satya Nadella spent a lot of time on the call re-assuring investors that Microsoft had the ability to gate its capital expenditures; most of his arguments were captured in this answer to an analyst question, which I will address piece-by-piece: Let me start, and then Amy can add to this. I think, I would say we primarily start right now from the demand side. What I mean by that is what’s the product – shape of the product portfolio, what we learned even from the cloud transition, which, as you know, Keith, was similar in the sense it was both a knowledge-intensive and a capital-intensive transition. We needed to have the product portfolio where there was the right mix of, I’ll call it, infrastructure meters as well as SaaS applications. So that’s the first thing that we are looking at, and how is that value landing with customers and what’s the growth rate. So when I think about what’s happening with M365 Copilot as perhaps the best Office 365 or M365 suite we have had, the fact that we’re getting recurring customers, so our customers coming back buying more seats. So GitHub Copilot now being bigger than even GitHub when we bought it. Nadella’s argument is that Microsoft isn’t just building generic AI infrastructure, but actually building AI products; this means that Microsoft can both drive demand based on its ability to deliver those products, and, by extension, has good visibility into demand because it can see how well those products are selling. To that end, Nadella threw out a bunch of numbers with regards to AI Copilot adoption, but nothing concrete; the best thing Microsoft could do to allay investor concerns is to drop a meaningful dollar figure in terms of AI Copilot revenue contributions. GitHub Copilot is by far the most widely adopted AI-powered developer tool. Just over two years since its general availability, more than 77,000 organizations from BBVA, FedEx, and H&M, to Infosys and Paytm have adopted Copilot, up 180% year-over-year. And we are going further. With Copilot Workspace, we offer Copilot-native end-to-end developer productivity across plan, build, test, debug, and deploy cycle. Copilot is driving GitHub growth, all up, GitHub’s annual revenue run rate is now $2 billion. Copilot accounted for over 40% of GitHub revenue growth this year, and is already a larger business than all of GitHub was when we acquired it. GitHub has a freemium business model: the vast majority of the company’s 24 million users don’t pay to host their code, which is public (that number, by the way, is likely higher than the total number of developers in the world); individual users can pay for private accounts (I have one for Stratechery’s WordPress theme files), but the biggest moneymaker is enterprise subscriptions, which of course offer privacy as well as a whole host of collaboration and security features, as well as versions of GitHub that run on private clouds. The companyat last reportswas doing about $200 million in revenue. That is certainly attractive to Microsoft, to an extent, but I suspect this is will be a purchase — presuming it goes through! — in which revenue is a bit beside the point. The implication of GitHub being used by basically all developers, if not at work than at least for their private projects, is that Microsoft now has a connection to all developers with a service that is generally beloved. That’s a big deal. In fact, it turns out that GitHub was the perfect home for what remains the most significant killer application for generative AI (GitHub Copilot); at the same time, note how little revenue GitHub had at the time of acquisition: saying that GitHub Copilot has more revenue now than the entire company had when it was acquired actually makes the case that AI revenue is still pretty low. The GitHub design system and the GitHub Copilot workspace design system, which now, for example, you start with an issue, you create a plan, from a plan, you create a spec, or you create a spec and from a spec, you create a plan and then you go operate across the full repo. That’s effectively the design system that is getting replicated inside of even the M365 Copilot. And you see this even now – for example, you get an email, you’re in sales, you want to respond to the customer. The data from the email is essentially context for a prompt but you expand by bringing in all of your CRM data, right? So this customer email is in the context of some order, all of the CRM record gets completed in context and a reply gets generated with the CRM data. That’s the type of stuff that’s already happening. Then you take something like Copilot Studio, you can start even grounding it in more data and then completing workflows. So you could say if this email comes from this customer whose order date is got a particular issue with it. You can then go and escalate it to somebody else who gets a notification in Teams. And those are the kinds of workflows that are getting built within IT or by end users themselves, what used to be line of business applications to us are Copilot extensions going forward. So we think of this as really a new design system for knowledge and frontline work to drive productivity, which would be very akin to what has happened in software engineering. So when you think about marketing or finance or sales or customer service, we will effectively replicate what you just said, which is the type of productivity we’ve seen in developers, will come to all of these functions as they think about their work, workflow and workout effect, all being driven by Copilots. I do think this is very compelling: developer workflows are significantly more productive than your typical office worker, in large part because developers have the motivation and ability to construct them. Nadella is making the case that Microsoft can build out those same sort of workflows for all knowledge workers, which certainly offers tremendous upside for Microsoft; at the same time, this is a heavy lift that will take time: this vision isn’t just about adding in a useful tool, but fundamentally changing the way people work. So I would say – and obviously, the Azure AI growth, that’s the first place we look at. That then drives bulk of the CapEx spend, basically, that’s the demand signal because you got to remember, even in the capital spend, there is land and there is data center build, but 60-plus percent is the kit, that only will be bought for inferencing and everything else if there is demand signal, right? So that’s, I think, the key way to think about capital cycle even. The asset, as Amy said, is a long-term asset, which is land and the data center, which, by the way, we don’t even construct things fully, we can even have things which are semi-constructed, we call [cold] (ph) shelves and so on. So we know how to manage our CapEx spend to build out a long-term asset and a lot of the hydration of the kit happens when we have the demand signal. There is definitely spend for training. Even there, of course, we will only be scaling training as we see the demand accrue in any given period in time. So I would say it’s more important to manage, to capture the opportunity with the right product portfolio that’s driving value. And on that front, I feel good about the breadth of Microsoft offering, whether it’s in consumer side, whether it’s on commercial per seat side or on the consumption meters, that’s, I think, the fundamental driver. The argument here is that a lot of Microsoft’s spending is on land and data centers generally, and that Microsoft can wait to buy GPUs as necessary; this makes sense, but implicit in this assumption is that Microsoft can shift demand risk to chipmakers like Nvidia (and ultimately TSMC). In other words, Microsoft argues that if they need GPUs they will buy GPUs, and if they don’t they won’t. That, though, assumes that Nvidia is willing and able to somewhat sell on demand, which is incongruous both with recent GPU demand and Nvidia’s aggressiveness and control of chip allocation.Someonehas to bear the demand risk, and one of the big fights over the coming quarters will be between TSMC, Nvidia, and the hyperscalers in determining who bears the most. Hi, everybody. Just two questions on the AI CapEx. So it looks like from the outside at least, the hyperscaler industry is going from kind of an underbuilt situation this time last year to better meeting the demand with capacity right now to potentially being overbuilt next year if these CapEx growth rates keep up. So do you think that’s a fair characterization? And how are we thinking about the return on invested capital with this AI CapEx cycle… Sundar Pichai:Thanks Ross. I think great questions. Look, obviously, we are at an early stage of what I view as a very transformative era and in ,technology when you are going through these transitions, aggressively investing upfront in a defining category, particularly in an area in which in a leveraged way cuts across all our core areas our products, including Search, YouTube and other services, as well as fuels growth in Cloud and supports the innovative long-term Bets and Other Bets is definitely something that for us makes sense to lean in. I think the one way I think about it is when we go through a curve like this, the risk of under-investing is dramatically greater than the risk of over-investing for us here, even in scenarios where if it turns out that we are over-investing. These are infrastructure, which are widely useful for us. They have long useful lives and we can apply it across, and we can work through that. But I think not investing to be at the frontier, I think definitely has much more significant downside. Having said that, we obsess around every dollar we put in. Our teams work super hard, I’m proud of the efficiency work, be it optimization of hardware, software, model deployment across our fleet. All of that is something we spend a lot of time on, and that’s how we think about it. This, like Microsoft’s implicit assumption it can offload risk to Nvidia, makes sense in theory: the only downside to Google’s massive increase in capex is buying equipment it will eventually use for other purposes. And, it should be noted, that Google has very real internal use cases for AI, both in terms of its core products and also increased monetization opportunities for things like advertising (I expect programmatic generative AI ads to be the second big use case for this technology, after programming, to Google and Meta’s benefit). The true risk, though, is that these investment decisions are not being made in a vacuum: all of the hyperscalers are using the same sort of justification for their investment. In other words, if revenue-driving use cases do not materialize, it’s not just Google or Microsoft or Amazon that will have excess capacity individually, but rather all of them all at the same time. This would certainly be good for 3rd-parties looking to get capacity from the hyperscalers; it also explains why Nadella’s response to questions about capex was focused on the importance of Microsoft developing its own products that can utilize that capacity (or, to put it another way, it is arguably AWS —not Meta— that is running the biggest risk amongst the hyperscalers because its build-out is primarily for 3rd-party developers). The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025