# [PODCAST] The "chilling effect" of deportations

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/01/24/1226561692/ice-raids-chicago-deportation-immigration-economics
**Atlas ID**: 229455
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.839626

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop As concerns about ICE raids heighten, we look to a recent mass deportation : Planet MoneyAfter being sworn into office, President Trump signed a whole host of executive actions and orders that affirm his campaign promise to crack down on immigration.Trump's border czar has said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted. The city is expecting immigration raids, detentions and deportations. In the Little Village neighborhood, where the majority of residents are Mexican or of Mexican descent, people are on edge as they await what's next.Beyond the many people personally affected, past research suggests everyone could feel the impacts of mass deportation.On this episode ofPlanet Moneywe visit Little Village to see how the new administration is already having an impact. And then, we hear from an economist who looks to a recent chapter in mass deportation for insight into what the future could hold.Today's episode was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aronczyk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with an assist from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Kenny Malone, engineered by Cena Loffredo and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe "chilling effect" of deportationsJanuary 24, 202510:08 PM ETByAmanda Aronczyk,Erika Beras,Willa Rubin,Kenny MaloneThe "chilling effect" of deportationsListen·23:1523:15TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1226561692/1265350804" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageThe Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide captiontoggle captionErika Beras/NPRThe Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRAfter being sworn into office, President Trump signed a whole host of executive actions and orders that affirm his campaign promise to crack down on immigration.Trump's border czar has said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted. The city is expecting immigration raids, detentions and deportations. In the Little Village neighborhood, where the majority of residents are Mexican or of Mexican descent, people are on edge as they await what's next.Beyond the many people personally affected, past research suggests everyone could feel the impacts of mass deportation.Sponsor MessageOn this episode ofPlanet Money,we visit Little Village to see how the new administration is already having an impact. And then, we hear from an economist who looks to a recent chapter in mass deportation for insight into what the future could hold.The Indicator from Planet MoneyWhat's missing in the immigration debateToday's episode was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aronczyk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with an assist from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Kenny Malone, engineered by Cena Loffredo and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Music Production- "Quiescent," "Love Still"; Audio Network - "Sunshine Beat"President Trumpmass deportationDeportationsImmigrationFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The "chilling effect" of deportationsListen·23:1523:15TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1226561692/1265350804" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The "chilling effect" of deportationsListen·23:1523:15TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1226561692/1265350804" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1226561692/1265350804" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageThe Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide captiontoggle captionErika Beras/NPRThe Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRAfter being sworn into office, President Trump signed a whole host of executive actions and orders that affirm his campaign promise to crack down on immigration.Trump's border czar has said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted. The city is expecting immigration raids, detentions and deportations. In the Little Village neighborhood, where the majority of residents are Mexican or of Mexican descent, people are on edge as they await what's next.Beyond the many people personally affected, past research suggests everyone could feel the impacts of mass deportation.Sponsor MessageOn this episode ofPlanet Money,we visit Little Village to see how the new administration is already having an impact. And then, we hear from an economist who looks to a recent chapter in mass deportation for insight into what the future could hold.The Indicator from Planet MoneyWhat's missing in the immigration debateToday's episode was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aronczyk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with an assist from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Kenny Malone, engineered by Cena Loffredo and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Music Production- "Quiescent," "Love Still"; Audio Network - "Sunshine Beat" Enlarge this imageThe Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide captiontoggle captionErika Beras/NPRThe Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPR The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide captiontoggle captionErika Beras/NPR The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide captiontoggle caption The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide caption The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPRhide caption The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPR The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations.Erika Beras/NPR The Little Village Arch in Chicago, Illinois, on Wednesday, January 22rd. The community here is predominantly Mexican and of Mexican origin. People here are on edge after Trump's border czar said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted for mass deportations. Trump's border czar has said Chicago is at the top of the list of places to be targeted. The city is expecting immigration raids, detentions and deportations. In the Little Village neighborhood, where the majority of residents are Mexican or of Mexican descent, people are on edge as they await what's next. On this episode ofPlanet Money,we visit Little Village to see how the new administration is already having an impact. And then, we hear from an economist who looks to a recent chapter in mass deportation for insight into what the future could hold. Today's episode was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aronczyk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with an assist from Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Kenny Malone, engineered by Cena Loffredo and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra