# [PODCAST] Apple's China Problem, Apple in the Short Term, Tech's Complement Risk

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/apples-china-problem-apple-in-the-short-term-techs-complement-risk/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.SC6QpZ0aMsOp8Ht_Ch9fkLcg-WcpiIdn51NIQ_S42Ew0_HUFb3YJBTg3yE6PDfcVVX5NQSl3m1XBxhl4LpwSgKBpY7buQmmIM-kgqKVG9ST9o2LyVMNWF7MYxZ3m4TTxPyK0EX6t1ZStBJP9g1W3Pk1QEFZ7icfNAiNn1-4DJLWZaV43k6WseQr5SNJ1FbLTqqqp_8i7QKMBhJhLkjfMKq1Yl2upJ8FAK7aZ1HhK1hkxMxE1AB9B3zAiETWLTTC7A_vec-cS4ezIH1WQZBc4m1EQ28in77-cYar6GwnHHHNzFpBrkQD2p0Fvw6FVqNEp7KNDfh_eukVjBHevkhTJ6A
**Atlas ID**: 229598
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.897465

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirApple’s China Problem, Apple in the Short Term, Tech’s Complement RiskTuesday, April 8, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, what a week to be on vacation.On to the Update:Apple’s China ProblemFrom theWall Street Journal:Beijing lashed back at President Trump’s threat of even higher tariffs on China, raising the specter of an all-out trade war between the world’s two biggest economies. “If the U.S. insists on its own way, China will fight to the end,” the country’s Commerce Ministry said Tuesday. Trump had said he would slap an extra 50% tariff on China if Beijing didn’t drop plans to retaliate against extra levies he announced last week. In a sign Beijing is digging in for a protracted battle, the government threw its weight behind the stock market and devalued the yuan against the dollar, pulling a reference rate below a key threshold for the first time since the fall of 2023.In spite of the spiraling tensions, global markets broadly rose early Tuesday, paring some losses after a bruising three-day selloff. U.S. stock futures pointed higher, after market whiplash Monday ultimately left major indexes largely unchanged. Giving investors some hope, the Trump administration signaled it was open to discussing lower tariffs with Japan, Israel and some other countries. Japanese stocks jumped after Tokyo named a chief tariff negotiator and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the country would be prioritized in trade talks.It’s obviously time to talk about Apple.This is not, as I highlighted inyesterday’s Article, the worst case scenario; that is war in Taiwan, which would not only abruptly end Apple’s China supply chain, but also its Taiwanese one (and potentially Japanese and South Korean ones as well). That is an existential risk to the company.A trade war with China is somewhat more manageable, although still very bad; I’m going to go paragraph-by-paragraph throughthis report in the Wall Street Journal:Apple plans to send more iPhones to the U.S. from India to offset the high cost of China tariffs, people familiar with the matter said. The adjustments are a short-term stopgap while Apple attempts to win an exemption from President Trump’s tariffs—which Chief Executive Tim Cook obtained during the first Trump administration. The company sees the current situation as too uncertain to upend long-term investments in its supply chain, which is centered around China, the people said.For all the criticism of Tim Cook, which has been mounting in recent years, including from yours truly, this is truly the opportunity for him to earn every dime of his paycheck in an attempt to preserve the viability of the Chinese supply chain that he built. He will certainly call back to his previous arguments: massive tariffs on Apple products will do a lot of damage to an American company and give a big advantage to foreign ones, particularly Samsung. That worked during the first Trump term.The problem is that other bullet point in Cook’s tenure: one can certainly make the argument that Apple, more than any other company, is responsible for China’s dominance in manufacturing, particularly when it comes to high tech componentry that the U.S. is so far behind in. Apple’s response might be that while that is true, at least the company has been trying to diversify.Trump’s new tariff package raises levies on Chinese goods to at least 54% while imposing a 26% rate on Indian goods…Before tariffs were announced, Apple was on pace to make about 25 million iPhones in India this year, said Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan. Normally, around 10 million of those would supply the local Indian market. If Apple were to redirect all India-made iPhones to the U.S., it could meet about 50% of American demand for the device this year, he said. Apple has been working to increase its India iPhone production for years…Trump-imposed tariffs obviously only apply to U.S. imports, while 42% of Apple’s revenue last quarter was from the Americas as a whole. That means that at least 58% of Apple’s revenue — I’d guess between 65–70% — is unaffected (and probably a larger portion of iPhone sales specifically). The most obvious medium-term fix for Apple is to ramp up India (and a much smaller operation in Brazil, which faces only 10% tariffs) to serve the U.S. market, while serving the rest of the world from China.Apple makes many iPhone components in China but in recent years has assembled more of the devices in India. That allows the company to stamp India as the country of origin for those devices because they undergo “substantial transformation” there—from a pile of parts to a functioning smartphone. Since 2017, Apple has worked with partners to assemble iPhones in India, starting with older models and gradually expanding to include the latest ones. The policy both addresses China risk and avoids import tariffs when selling in India, one of the world’s fastest-growing smartphone markets.The fact that India does little more than assemble Chinese-sourced components gets at one reason for the blanket tariffs; Chinese imports to the U.S. have actually fallen over the last several years, but a lot of that is because of similar schemes to do final assembly in countries like Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico, or, in this case India.Yet the company’s production is still centered in China. Its manufacturing partners such as Foxconn operate huge facilities there, taking advantage of the country’s deep network of suppliers, skilled labor and government support.Building on the blanket tariff point, probably the biggest question right now is if the goal is to fundamentally reshape the global economic order, or to simply cut off China. If it’s the former, there is arguably less incentive for Apple to change anything: if they’re going to feel the pain everywhere, then it probably makes the most sense to simply keep its supply chain based in China, with final assembly elsewhere.Vietnam, which has become a hub for making AirPods, the Apple Watch and iPads, received a tariff of 46% under Trump’s plan, nearly as high as China’s. But Trump suggested in a social-media post Friday after speaking to Vietnam’s leader that he might offer a better deal.If it’s the latter, however, then these final assembly shifts to other countries should be viewed as a positive. A company of Apple’s scale doesn’t shift its entire supply chain overnight; it shifts parts that are easier to shift, like final assembly, and that forms its own gravity for high value components. Indeed, this is exactly what happened in China: it used to be that China actually contributed very little economic value to the final cost of an iPhone; I wrote in 2014 inPublishers and the Smiling Curve:While the iPhone got less attention than usual at its launch event (due to the Apple Watch), by far the greatest amount of time was spent on its camera. And for good reason: review after review has lauded the iPhone 6 camera as possibly the best phone camera ever. It turns out, though, that there are only a couple of companies in the world that are capable of producing such a camera, and Largan Precision is one of them. That is why they provide the camera for the iPhone 6 (as they have for several models now) and that is why their stock performance looks like this:True, their $9.6 billion market cap barely registers when compared to Apple’s $623.6 billion number, but when you consider that Largan Precision is a relatively tiny company that’s pretty darn impressive, and I can assure you the founders are living much more comfortably than all but the most senior Apple managers. Moreover, it’s not that far off from Foxconn, who actually builds the iPhone; their market cap is only 5x greater than the maker of a single component.Seven years later and Largan Precision was under threat, along with a host of other non-Chinese suppliers; fromCommonwealth Magazine:With the latest iPhone 13 model, Chinese outfit Sunny Optical has finally broken into the Apple supply chain, marking the first occasion upon which a PRC-based supplier has entered the iPhone’s optical parts realm to capture supply of one of the model’s three main lenses, namely the 7P (seven stack) wide angle lens…Other than semiconductors, Taiwan’s entire Apple supply chain faces the threat of being overtaken by PRC-based manufacturers. Mid-year in 2021, Apple released a list of its top 200 major suppliers. Of the names on the list, the number of Chinese companies rose to 51, overtaking Taiwan’s 48 suppliers for the first time to become Apple’s largest supplier by country.Largan Precision is probably a bad example; they are the best in the world, and have bounced back to take more iPhone share, while Sunny Optical fell off (althoughthey may be back this year). What is more pertinent is the overall trend towards Chinese component suppliers, which followed final assembly.There is one fly in this ointment that is worth noting: a big reason why those Chinese component suppliers got off the ground is because of Apple not just giving them a buyer but also investing heavily in R&D on their behalf in an attempt to undercut the power of companies like Largan Precision. Again from Commonwealth:One high-level Apple supply chain executive relates that Apple could not countenance Largan’s nearly 70-percent profit margins, and did everything in its power to get Largan to drop its prices. Most analysts anticipated that Apple would adopt 8P stack lenses for the iPhone 12, launched in 2020. However, it held steady with 7P lenses, and continued to do so with the new iPhone 13 as well. With nowhere to put the 8P and 9P lenses they have already developed for some time, Largan saw third quarter gross margins drop to below 60 percent for the first time in the third quarter, marking a five-year low.One optics maker executive revealed that, in its efforts to support Sunny, Apple relaxed its optical quality specifications, since Apple planned to use software to correct hardware deficiencies. “Their smartphone CPU/GPU capacity is so powerful that they can lower their demands on hardware components,” he adds. Professor Winston Hsu of the National Taiwan University Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, also offered that in recent years Apple has had the capacity to apply deep learning technology to facial recognition and backgrounds, and make minute lighting adjustments to significantly improve imaging results. “So Largan’s lenses have become not as important,” he states. In other words, with Huawei out of the picture, plus the steep rise in smartphone computational capacity, Apple had suddenly bridged the gap between Largan and Sunny Optics overnight.Again, this isn’t the best example —credit to Largan Precision for fighting back— but it is something that has happened up-and-down the iPhone supply chain. Apple hasn’t simply sat idly by and benefited from China’s technological development; it has actively pushed and accelerated it.What the company clearly needs to do is apply that same energy somewhere other than China. That, though, will take time, and as I noted earlier, is only viable if the Trump administration provides clarity about the actual goal of these tariffs.Apple in the Short TermFrom theTimes of India:Apple transported five planes full of iPhones and other products from India to the US in just three days during the final week of March, a senior Indian official confirmed to The Times of India. The urgent shipments were made to avoid a new 10% reciprocal tariff imposed by US President Donald Trump’s administration that took effect on April 5. Sources said that Apple currently has no plans to increase retail prices in India or other markets despite the tariffs.To mitigate the impact, the company rapidly moved inventory from manufacturing centres in India and China to the US, even though this period is typically a slow shipping season. “Factories in India and China and other key locations had been shipping products to the US in anticipation of the higher tariffs,” according to one source.I imagine there were even more planes flying from China over the last few days, and I wouldn’t be surprised if Apple pulled from supply elsewhere in the world as well (perhaps Cook needs to revisit his famous axiom thatinventory is fundamentally evil).To that end, I would imagine that Apple is going to try and hold the line on pricing in the U.S. for as long as it can; for the iPhone specifically I wouldn’t expect any changes until the the next iPhone launch in September. While Apple has changed prices mid-cycle in countries facing significant currency changes, they havestudiously tried to avoid that in the U.S. market, which has the added risk of angering President Trump even as the company will be seeking some sort of exemption.That noted,I have been documenting for several years nowhow Apple has actually been cutting iPhone prices in real-terms:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904Surely the price increase I’ve been expecting for a while now has to come this year! Apple can eat the tariffs for a few months, but I don’t think the company can tolerate it in the long run, and again, they are due.Tech’s Complement RiskThe biggest takeaway from all of this, however, should be to reiterate what a disaster this is for Apple, and for tech generally. To go back to what I wrote last fall inA Chance to Build:Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.This benefit has extended to every tech company, whether they make their own hardware or not. Software has to run on something, whether that be servers or computers or phones; hardware is software’s most essential complement. Joel Spolsky, in his canonical post aboutcommoditizing your complements, wrote:Every product in the marketplace has substitutes and complements…A complement is a product that you usually buy together with another product. Gas and cars are complements. Computer hardware is a classic complement of computer operating systems. And babysitters are a complement of dinner at fine restaurants. In a small town, when the local five star restaurant has a two-for-one Valentine’s day special, the local babysitters double their rates. (Actually, the nine-year-olds get roped into early service.)…Demand for a product increases when the price of its complements decreases. In general, a company’s strategic interest is going to be to get the price of their complements as low as possible. The lowest theoretically sustainable price would be the “commodity price” — the price that arises when you have a bunch of competitors offering indistinguishable goods…If you can run your software anywhere, that makes hardware more of a commodity. As hardware prices go down, the market expands, driving more demand for software (and leaving customers with extra money to spend on software which can now be more expensive.)…Spolsky’s post was written in 2002, well before the rise of smartphones and, more pertinently, ad-supported software that now permeates our world. That, though, only makes his point: hardware has become so cheap and so widespread that software can be astronomically valuable even as it’s free to end users. Which, by the way, is that other part of the boon to consumers I noted above.I wrote in the final section:To that end, the risk for tech is that tariffs specifically and Trump’s approach to trade generally do more damage to the golden goose than expected. More expensive hardware ultimately constricts the market for software; tariffs in violation of agreements like the ITA give the opening for other countries to impose levies of their own, and U.S. tech companies could very well be popular targets.U.S. tech exports are primarily software and services, which aren’t calculated in things like trade deficits; one suspects that that means that the Trump administration isn’t very concerned about them, although countries looking for retaliation targets surely will be. That, though, pales in comparison to the costs of blowing up the hardware supply chain, tech’s most essential complement. This isn’t, in the end, just an Apple story.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.15: Liberation and WhiplashDateFriday, April 11, 2025Apple hires Burberry CEO as SVP of RetailDateTuesday, October 15, 2013Tech Epochs and the App Store TrapDateTuesday, September 7, 2021←Trade, Tariffs, and TechAmerican Disruption→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Apple’s China Problem, Apple in the Short Term, Tech’s Complement RiskTuesday, April 8, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, what a week to be on vacation.On to the Update:Apple’s China ProblemFrom theWall Street Journal:Beijing lashed back at President Trump’s threat of even higher tariffs on China, raising the specter of an all-out trade war between the world’s two biggest economies. “If the U.S. insists on its own way, China will fight to the end,” the country’s Commerce Ministry said Tuesday. Trump had said he would slap an extra 50% tariff on China if Beijing didn’t drop plans to retaliate against extra levies he announced last week. In a sign Beijing is digging in for a protracted battle, the government threw its weight behind the stock market and devalued the yuan against the dollar, pulling a reference rate below a key threshold for the first time since the fall of 2023.In spite of the spiraling tensions, global markets broadly rose early Tuesday, paring some losses after a bruising three-day selloff. U.S. stock futures pointed higher, after market whiplash Monday ultimately left major indexes largely unchanged. Giving investors some hope, the Trump administration signaled it was open to discussing lower tariffs with Japan, Israel and some other countries. Japanese stocks jumped after Tokyo named a chief tariff negotiator and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the country would be prioritized in trade talks.It’s obviously time to talk about Apple.This is not, as I highlighted inyesterday’s Article, the worst case scenario; that is war in Taiwan, which would not only abruptly end Apple’s China supply chain, but also its Taiwanese one (and potentially Japanese and South Korean ones as well). That is an existential risk to the company.A trade war with China is somewhat more manageable, although still very bad; I’m going to go paragraph-by-paragraph throughthis report in the Wall Street Journal:Apple plans to send more iPhones to the U.S. from India to offset the high cost of China tariffs, people familiar with the matter said. The adjustments are a short-term stopgap while Apple attempts to win an exemption from President Trump’s tariffs—which Chief Executive Tim Cook obtained during the first Trump administration. The company sees the current situation as too uncertain to upend long-term investments in its supply chain, which is centered around China, the people said.For all the criticism of Tim Cook, which has been mounting in recent years, including from yours truly, this is truly the opportunity for him to earn every dime of his paycheck in an attempt to preserve the viability of the Chinese supply chain that he built. He will certainly call back to his previous arguments: massive tariffs on Apple products will do a lot of damage to an American company and give a big advantage to foreign ones, particularly Samsung. That worked during the first Trump term.The problem is that other bullet point in Cook’s tenure: one can certainly make the argument that Apple, more than any other company, is responsible for China’s dominance in manufacturing, particularly when it comes to high tech componentry that the U.S. is so far behind in. Apple’s response might be that while that is true, at least the company has been trying to diversify.Trump’s new tariff package raises levies on Chinese goods to at least 54% while imposing a 26% rate on Indian goods…Before tariffs were announced, Apple was on pace to make about 25 million iPhones in India this year, said Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan. Normally, around 10 million of those would supply the local Indian market. If Apple were to redirect all India-made iPhones to the U.S., it could meet about 50% of American demand for the device this year, he said. Apple has been working to increase its India iPhone production for years…Trump-imposed tariffs obviously only apply to U.S. imports, while 42% of Apple’s revenue last quarter was from the Americas as a whole. That means that at least 58% of Apple’s revenue — I’d guess between 65–70% — is unaffected (and probably a larger portion of iPhone sales specifically). The most obvious medium-term fix for Apple is to ramp up India (and a much smaller operation in Brazil, which faces only 10% tariffs) to serve the U.S. market, while serving the rest of the world from China.Apple makes many iPhone components in China but in recent years has assembled more of the devices in India. That allows the company to stamp India as the country of origin for those devices because they undergo “substantial transformation” there—from a pile of parts to a functioning smartphone. Since 2017, Apple has worked with partners to assemble iPhones in India, starting with older models and gradually expanding to include the latest ones. The policy both addresses China risk and avoids import tariffs when selling in India, one of the world’s fastest-growing smartphone markets.The fact that India does little more than assemble Chinese-sourced components gets at one reason for the blanket tariffs; Chinese imports to the U.S. have actually fallen over the last several years, but a lot of that is because of similar schemes to do final assembly in countries like Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico, or, in this case India.Yet the company’s production is still centered in China. Its manufacturing partners such as Foxconn operate huge facilities there, taking advantage of the country’s deep network of suppliers, skilled labor and government support.Building on the blanket tariff point, probably the biggest question right now is if the goal is to fundamentally reshape the global economic order, or to simply cut off China. If it’s the former, there is arguably less incentive for Apple to change anything: if they’re going to feel the pain everywhere, then it probably makes the most sense to simply keep its supply chain based in China, with final assembly elsewhere.Vietnam, which has become a hub for making AirPods, the Apple Watch and iPads, received a tariff of 46% under Trump’s plan, nearly as high as China’s. But Trump suggested in a social-media post Friday after speaking to Vietnam’s leader that he might offer a better deal.If it’s the latter, however, then these final assembly shifts to other countries should be viewed as a positive. A company of Apple’s scale doesn’t shift its entire supply chain overnight; it shifts parts that are easier to shift, like final assembly, and that forms its own gravity for high value components. Indeed, this is exactly what happened in China: it used to be that China actually contributed very little economic value to the final cost of an iPhone; I wrote in 2014 inPublishers and the Smiling Curve:While the iPhone got less attention than usual at its launch event (due to the Apple Watch), by far the greatest amount of time was spent on its camera. And for good reason: review after review has lauded the iPhone 6 camera as possibly the best phone camera ever. It turns out, though, that there are only a couple of companies in the world that are capable of producing such a camera, and Largan Precision is one of them. That is why they provide the camera for the iPhone 6 (as they have for several models now) and that is why their stock performance looks like this:True, their $9.6 billion market cap barely registers when compared to Apple’s $623.6 billion number, but when you consider that Largan Precision is a relatively tiny company that’s pretty darn impressive, and I can assure you the founders are living much more comfortably than all but the most senior Apple managers. Moreover, it’s not that far off from Foxconn, who actually builds the iPhone; their market cap is only 5x greater than the maker of a single component.Seven years later and Largan Precision was under threat, along with a host of other non-Chinese suppliers; fromCommonwealth Magazine:With the latest iPhone 13 model, Chinese outfit Sunny Optical has finally broken into the Apple supply chain, marking the first occasion upon which a PRC-based supplier has entered the iPhone’s optical parts realm to capture supply of one of the model’s three main lenses, namely the 7P (seven stack) wide angle lens…Other than semiconductors, Taiwan’s entire Apple supply chain faces the threat of being overtaken by PRC-based manufacturers. Mid-year in 2021, Apple released a list of its top 200 major suppliers. Of the names on the list, the number of Chinese companies rose to 51, overtaking Taiwan’s 48 suppliers for the first time to become Apple’s largest supplier by country.Largan Precision is probably a bad example; they are the best in the world, and have bounced back to take more iPhone share, while Sunny Optical fell off (althoughthey may be back this year). What is more pertinent is the overall trend towards Chinese component suppliers, which followed final assembly.There is one fly in this ointment that is worth noting: a big reason why those Chinese component suppliers got off the ground is because of Apple not just giving them a buyer but also investing heavily in R&D on their behalf in an attempt to undercut the power of companies like Largan Precision. Again from Commonwealth:One high-level Apple supply chain executive relates that Apple could not countenance Largan’s nearly 70-percent profit margins, and did everything in its power to get Largan to drop its prices. Most analysts anticipated that Apple would adopt 8P stack lenses for the iPhone 12, launched in 2020. However, it held steady with 7P lenses, and continued to do so with the new iPhone 13 as well. With nowhere to put the 8P and 9P lenses they have already developed for some time, Largan saw third quarter gross margins drop to below 60 percent for the first time in the third quarter, marking a five-year low.One optics maker executive revealed that, in its efforts to support Sunny, Apple relaxed its optical quality specifications, since Apple planned to use software to correct hardware deficiencies. “Their smartphone CPU/GPU capacity is so powerful that they can lower their demands on hardware components,” he adds. Professor Winston Hsu of the National Taiwan University Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, also offered that in recent years Apple has had the capacity to apply deep learning technology to facial recognition and backgrounds, and make minute lighting adjustments to significantly improve imaging results. “So Largan’s lenses have become not as important,” he states. In other words, with Huawei out of the picture, plus the steep rise in smartphone computational capacity, Apple had suddenly bridged the gap between Largan and Sunny Optics overnight.Again, this isn’t the best example —credit to Largan Precision for fighting back— but it is something that has happened up-and-down the iPhone supply chain. Apple hasn’t simply sat idly by and benefited from China’s technological development; it has actively pushed and accelerated it.What the company clearly needs to do is apply that same energy somewhere other than China. That, though, will take time, and as I noted earlier, is only viable if the Trump administration provides clarity about the actual goal of these tariffs.Apple in the Short TermFrom theTimes of India:Apple transported five planes full of iPhones and other products from India to the US in just three days during the final week of March, a senior Indian official confirmed to The Times of India. The urgent shipments were made to avoid a new 10% reciprocal tariff imposed by US President Donald Trump’s administration that took effect on April 5. Sources said that Apple currently has no plans to increase retail prices in India or other markets despite the tariffs.To mitigate the impact, the company rapidly moved inventory from manufacturing centres in India and China to the US, even though this period is typically a slow shipping season. “Factories in India and China and other key locations had been shipping products to the US in anticipation of the higher tariffs,” according to one source.I imagine there were even more planes flying from China over the last few days, and I wouldn’t be surprised if Apple pulled from supply elsewhere in the world as well (perhaps Cook needs to revisit his famous axiom thatinventory is fundamentally evil).To that end, I would imagine that Apple is going to try and hold the line on pricing in the U.S. for as long as it can; for the iPhone specifically I wouldn’t expect any changes until the the next iPhone launch in September. While Apple has changed prices mid-cycle in countries facing significant currency changes, they havestudiously tried to avoid that in the U.S. market, which has the added risk of angering President Trump even as the company will be seeking some sort of exemption.That noted,I have been documenting for several years nowhow Apple has actually been cutting iPhone prices in real-terms:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904Surely the price increase I’ve been expecting for a while now has to come this year! Apple can eat the tariffs for a few months, but I don’t think the company can tolerate it in the long run, and again, they are due.Tech’s Complement RiskThe biggest takeaway from all of this, however, should be to reiterate what a disaster this is for Apple, and for tech generally. To go back to what I wrote last fall inA Chance to Build:Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.This benefit has extended to every tech company, whether they make their own hardware or not. Software has to run on something, whether that be servers or computers or phones; hardware is software’s most essential complement. Joel Spolsky, in his canonical post aboutcommoditizing your complements, wrote:Every product in the marketplace has substitutes and complements…A complement is a product that you usually buy together with another product. Gas and cars are complements. Computer hardware is a classic complement of computer operating systems. And babysitters are a complement of dinner at fine restaurants. In a small town, when the local five star restaurant has a two-for-one Valentine’s day special, the local babysitters double their rates. (Actually, the nine-year-olds get roped into early service.)…Demand for a product increases when the price of its complements decreases. In general, a company’s strategic interest is going to be to get the price of their complements as low as possible. The lowest theoretically sustainable price would be the “commodity price” — the price that arises when you have a bunch of competitors offering indistinguishable goods…If you can run your software anywhere, that makes hardware more of a commodity. As hardware prices go down, the market expands, driving more demand for software (and leaving customers with extra money to spend on software which can now be more expensive.)…Spolsky’s post was written in 2002, well before the rise of smartphones and, more pertinently, ad-supported software that now permeates our world. That, though, only makes his point: hardware has become so cheap and so widespread that software can be astronomically valuable even as it’s free to end users. Which, by the way, is that other part of the boon to consumers I noted above.I wrote in the final section:To that end, the risk for tech is that tariffs specifically and Trump’s approach to trade generally do more damage to the golden goose than expected. More expensive hardware ultimately constricts the market for software; tariffs in violation of agreements like the ITA give the opening for other countries to impose levies of their own, and U.S. tech companies could very well be popular targets.U.S. tech exports are primarily software and services, which aren’t calculated in things like trade deficits; one suspects that that means that the Trump administration isn’t very concerned about them, although countries looking for retaliation targets surely will be. That, though, pales in comparison to the costs of blowing up the hardware supply chain, tech’s most essential complement. This isn’t, in the end, just an Apple story.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.15: Liberation and WhiplashDateFriday, April 11, 2025Apple hires Burberry CEO as SVP of RetailDateTuesday, October 15, 2013Tech Epochs and the App Store TrapDateTuesday, September 7, 2021←Trade, Tariffs, and TechAmerican Disruption→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Apple’s China Problem, Apple in the Short Term, Tech’s Complement RiskTuesday, April 8, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, what a week to be on vacation.On to the Update:Apple’s China ProblemFrom theWall Street Journal:Beijing lashed back at President Trump’s threat of even higher tariffs on China, raising the specter of an all-out trade war between the world’s two biggest economies. “If the U.S. insists on its own way, China will fight to the end,” the country’s Commerce Ministry said Tuesday. Trump had said he would slap an extra 50% tariff on China if Beijing didn’t drop plans to retaliate against extra levies he announced last week. In a sign Beijing is digging in for a protracted battle, the government threw its weight behind the stock market and devalued the yuan against the dollar, pulling a reference rate below a key threshold for the first time since the fall of 2023.In spite of the spiraling tensions, global markets broadly rose early Tuesday, paring some losses after a bruising three-day selloff. U.S. stock futures pointed higher, after market whiplash Monday ultimately left major indexes largely unchanged. Giving investors some hope, the Trump administration signaled it was open to discussing lower tariffs with Japan, Israel and some other countries. Japanese stocks jumped after Tokyo named a chief tariff negotiator and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the country would be prioritized in trade talks.It’s obviously time to talk about Apple.This is not, as I highlighted inyesterday’s Article, the worst case scenario; that is war in Taiwan, which would not only abruptly end Apple’s China supply chain, but also its Taiwanese one (and potentially Japanese and South Korean ones as well). That is an existential risk to the company.A trade war with China is somewhat more manageable, although still very bad; I’m going to go paragraph-by-paragraph throughthis report in the Wall Street Journal:Apple plans to send more iPhones to the U.S. from India to offset the high cost of China tariffs, people familiar with the matter said. The adjustments are a short-term stopgap while Apple attempts to win an exemption from President Trump’s tariffs—which Chief Executive Tim Cook obtained during the first Trump administration. The company sees the current situation as too uncertain to upend long-term investments in its supply chain, which is centered around China, the people said.For all the criticism of Tim Cook, which has been mounting in recent years, including from yours truly, this is truly the opportunity for him to earn every dime of his paycheck in an attempt to preserve the viability of the Chinese supply chain that he built. He will certainly call back to his previous arguments: massive tariffs on Apple products will do a lot of damage to an American company and give a big advantage to foreign ones, particularly Samsung. That worked during the first Trump term.The problem is that other bullet point in Cook’s tenure: one can certainly make the argument that Apple, more than any other company, is responsible for China’s dominance in manufacturing, particularly when it comes to high tech componentry that the U.S. is so far behind in. Apple’s response might be that while that is true, at least the company has been trying to diversify.Trump’s new tariff package raises levies on Chinese goods to at least 54% while imposing a 26% rate on Indian goods…Before tariffs were announced, Apple was on pace to make about 25 million iPhones in India this year, said Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan. Normally, around 10 million of those would supply the local Indian market. If Apple were to redirect all India-made iPhones to the U.S., it could meet about 50% of American demand for the device this year, he said. Apple has been working to increase its India iPhone production for years…Trump-imposed tariffs obviously only apply to U.S. imports, while 42% of Apple’s revenue last quarter was from the Americas as a whole. That means that at least 58% of Apple’s revenue — I’d guess between 65–70% — is unaffected (and probably a larger portion of iPhone sales specifically). The most obvious medium-term fix for Apple is to ramp up India (and a much smaller operation in Brazil, which faces only 10% tariffs) to serve the U.S. market, while serving the rest of the world from China.Apple makes many iPhone components in China but in recent years has assembled more of the devices in India. That allows the company to stamp India as the country of origin for those devices because they undergo “substantial transformation” there—from a pile of parts to a functioning smartphone. Since 2017, Apple has worked with partners to assemble iPhones in India, starting with older models and gradually expanding to include the latest ones. The policy both addresses China risk and avoids import tariffs when selling in India, one of the world’s fastest-growing smartphone markets.The fact that India does little more than assemble Chinese-sourced components gets at one reason for the blanket tariffs; Chinese imports to the U.S. have actually fallen over the last several years, but a lot of that is because of similar schemes to do final assembly in countries like Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico, or, in this case India.Yet the company’s production is still centered in China. Its manufacturing partners such as Foxconn operate huge facilities there, taking advantage of the country’s deep network of suppliers, skilled labor and government support.Building on the blanket tariff point, probably the biggest question right now is if the goal is to fundamentally reshape the global economic order, or to simply cut off China. If it’s the former, there is arguably less incentive for Apple to change anything: if they’re going to feel the pain everywhere, then it probably makes the most sense to simply keep its supply chain based in China, with final assembly elsewhere.Vietnam, which has become a hub for making AirPods, the Apple Watch and iPads, received a tariff of 46% under Trump’s plan, nearly as high as China’s. But Trump suggested in a social-media post Friday after speaking to Vietnam’s leader that he might offer a better deal.If it’s the latter, however, then these final assembly shifts to other countries should be viewed as a positive. A company of Apple’s scale doesn’t shift its entire supply chain overnight; it shifts parts that are easier to shift, like final assembly, and that forms its own gravity for high value components. Indeed, this is exactly what happened in China: it used to be that China actually contributed very little economic value to the final cost of an iPhone; I wrote in 2014 inPublishers and the Smiling Curve:While the iPhone got less attention than usual at its launch event (due to the Apple Watch), by far the greatest amount of time was spent on its camera. And for good reason: review after review has lauded the iPhone 6 camera as possibly the best phone camera ever. It turns out, though, that there are only a couple of companies in the world that are capable of producing such a camera, and Largan Precision is one of them. That is why they provide the camera for the iPhone 6 (as they have for several models now) and that is why their stock performance looks like this:True, their $9.6 billion market cap barely registers when compared to Apple’s $623.6 billion number, but when you consider that Largan Precision is a relatively tiny company that’s pretty darn impressive, and I can assure you the founders are living much more comfortably than all but the most senior Apple managers. Moreover, it’s not that far off from Foxconn, who actually builds the iPhone; their market cap is only 5x greater than the maker of a single component.Seven years later and Largan Precision was under threat, along with a host of other non-Chinese suppliers; fromCommonwealth Magazine:With the latest iPhone 13 model, Chinese outfit Sunny Optical has finally broken into the Apple supply chain, marking the first occasion upon which a PRC-based supplier has entered the iPhone’s optical parts realm to capture supply of one of the model’s three main lenses, namely the 7P (seven stack) wide angle lens…Other than semiconductors, Taiwan’s entire Apple supply chain faces the threat of being overtaken by PRC-based manufacturers. Mid-year in 2021, Apple released a list of its top 200 major suppliers. Of the names on the list, the number of Chinese companies rose to 51, overtaking Taiwan’s 48 suppliers for the first time to become Apple’s largest supplier by country.Largan Precision is probably a bad example; they are the best in the world, and have bounced back to take more iPhone share, while Sunny Optical fell off (althoughthey may be back this year). What is more pertinent is the overall trend towards Chinese component suppliers, which followed final assembly.There is one fly in this ointment that is worth noting: a big reason why those Chinese component suppliers got off the ground is because of Apple not just giving them a buyer but also investing heavily in R&D on their behalf in an attempt to undercut the power of companies like Largan Precision. Again from Commonwealth:One high-level Apple supply chain executive relates that Apple could not countenance Largan’s nearly 70-percent profit margins, and did everything in its power to get Largan to drop its prices. Most analysts anticipated that Apple would adopt 8P stack lenses for the iPhone 12, launched in 2020. However, it held steady with 7P lenses, and continued to do so with the new iPhone 13 as well. With nowhere to put the 8P and 9P lenses they have already developed for some time, Largan saw third quarter gross margins drop to below 60 percent for the first time in the third quarter, marking a five-year low.One optics maker executive revealed that, in its efforts to support Sunny, Apple relaxed its optical quality specifications, since Apple planned to use software to correct hardware deficiencies. “Their smartphone CPU/GPU capacity is so powerful that they can lower their demands on hardware components,” he adds. Professor Winston Hsu of the National Taiwan University Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, also offered that in recent years Apple has had the capacity to apply deep learning technology to facial recognition and backgrounds, and make minute lighting adjustments to significantly improve imaging results. “So Largan’s lenses have become not as important,” he states. In other words, with Huawei out of the picture, plus the steep rise in smartphone computational capacity, Apple had suddenly bridged the gap between Largan and Sunny Optics overnight.Again, this isn’t the best example —credit to Largan Precision for fighting back— but it is something that has happened up-and-down the iPhone supply chain. Apple hasn’t simply sat idly by and benefited from China’s technological development; it has actively pushed and accelerated it.What the company clearly needs to do is apply that same energy somewhere other than China. That, though, will take time, and as I noted earlier, is only viable if the Trump administration provides clarity about the actual goal of these tariffs.Apple in the Short TermFrom theTimes of India:Apple transported five planes full of iPhones and other products from India to the US in just three days during the final week of March, a senior Indian official confirmed to The Times of India. The urgent shipments were made to avoid a new 10% reciprocal tariff imposed by US President Donald Trump’s administration that took effect on April 5. Sources said that Apple currently has no plans to increase retail prices in India or other markets despite the tariffs.To mitigate the impact, the company rapidly moved inventory from manufacturing centres in India and China to the US, even though this period is typically a slow shipping season. “Factories in India and China and other key locations had been shipping products to the US in anticipation of the higher tariffs,” according to one source.I imagine there were even more planes flying from China over the last few days, and I wouldn’t be surprised if Apple pulled from supply elsewhere in the world as well (perhaps Cook needs to revisit his famous axiom thatinventory is fundamentally evil).To that end, I would imagine that Apple is going to try and hold the line on pricing in the U.S. for as long as it can; for the iPhone specifically I wouldn’t expect any changes until the the next iPhone launch in September. While Apple has changed prices mid-cycle in countries facing significant currency changes, they havestudiously tried to avoid that in the U.S. market, which has the added risk of angering President Trump even as the company will be seeking some sort of exemption.That noted,I have been documenting for several years nowhow Apple has actually been cutting iPhone prices in real-terms:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904Surely the price increase I’ve been expecting for a while now has to come this year! Apple can eat the tariffs for a few months, but I don’t think the company can tolerate it in the long run, and again, they are due.Tech’s Complement RiskThe biggest takeaway from all of this, however, should be to reiterate what a disaster this is for Apple, and for tech generally. To go back to what I wrote last fall inA Chance to Build:Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.This benefit has extended to every tech company, whether they make their own hardware or not. Software has to run on something, whether that be servers or computers or phones; hardware is software’s most essential complement. Joel Spolsky, in his canonical post aboutcommoditizing your complements, wrote:Every product in the marketplace has substitutes and complements…A complement is a product that you usually buy together with another product. Gas and cars are complements. Computer hardware is a classic complement of computer operating systems. And babysitters are a complement of dinner at fine restaurants. In a small town, when the local five star restaurant has a two-for-one Valentine’s day special, the local babysitters double their rates. (Actually, the nine-year-olds get roped into early service.)…Demand for a product increases when the price of its complements decreases. In general, a company’s strategic interest is going to be to get the price of their complements as low as possible. The lowest theoretically sustainable price would be the “commodity price” — the price that arises when you have a bunch of competitors offering indistinguishable goods…If you can run your software anywhere, that makes hardware more of a commodity. As hardware prices go down, the market expands, driving more demand for software (and leaving customers with extra money to spend on software which can now be more expensive.)…Spolsky’s post was written in 2002, well before the rise of smartphones and, more pertinently, ad-supported software that now permeates our world. That, though, only makes his point: hardware has become so cheap and so widespread that software can be astronomically valuable even as it’s free to end users. Which, by the way, is that other part of the boon to consumers I noted above.I wrote in the final section:To that end, the risk for tech is that tariffs specifically and Trump’s approach to trade generally do more damage to the golden goose than expected. More expensive hardware ultimately constricts the market for software; tariffs in violation of agreements like the ITA give the opening for other countries to impose levies of their own, and U.S. tech companies could very well be popular targets.U.S. tech exports are primarily software and services, which aren’t calculated in things like trade deficits; one suspects that that means that the Trump administration isn’t very concerned about them, although countries looking for retaliation targets surely will be. That, though, pales in comparison to the costs of blowing up the hardware supply chain, tech’s most essential complement. This isn’t, in the end, just an Apple story.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.15: Liberation and WhiplashDateFriday, April 11, 2025Apple hires Burberry CEO as SVP of RetailDateTuesday, October 15, 2013Tech Epochs and the App Store TrapDateTuesday, September 7, 2021←Trade, Tariffs, and TechAmerican Disruption→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, what a week to be on vacation.On to the Update:Apple’s China ProblemFrom theWall Street Journal:Beijing lashed back at President Trump’s threat of even higher tariffs on China, raising the specter of an all-out trade war between the world’s two biggest economies. “If the U.S. insists on its own way, China will fight to the end,” the country’s Commerce Ministry said Tuesday. Trump had said he would slap an extra 50% tariff on China if Beijing didn’t drop plans to retaliate against extra levies he announced last week. In a sign Beijing is digging in for a protracted battle, the government threw its weight behind the stock market and devalued the yuan against the dollar, pulling a reference rate below a key threshold for the first time since the fall of 2023.In spite of the spiraling tensions, global markets broadly rose early Tuesday, paring some losses after a bruising three-day selloff. U.S. stock futures pointed higher, after market whiplash Monday ultimately left major indexes largely unchanged. Giving investors some hope, the Trump administration signaled it was open to discussing lower tariffs with Japan, Israel and some other countries. Japanese stocks jumped after Tokyo named a chief tariff negotiator and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the country would be prioritized in trade talks.It’s obviously time to talk about Apple.This is not, as I highlighted inyesterday’s Article, the worst case scenario; that is war in Taiwan, which would not only abruptly end Apple’s China supply chain, but also its Taiwanese one (and potentially Japanese and South Korean ones as well). That is an existential risk to the company.A trade war with China is somewhat more manageable, although still very bad; I’m going to go paragraph-by-paragraph throughthis report in the Wall Street Journal:Apple plans to send more iPhones to the U.S. from India to offset the high cost of China tariffs, people familiar with the matter said. The adjustments are a short-term stopgap while Apple attempts to win an exemption from President Trump’s tariffs—which Chief Executive Tim Cook obtained during the first Trump administration. The company sees the current situation as too uncertain to upend long-term investments in its supply chain, which is centered around China, the people said.For all the criticism of Tim Cook, which has been mounting in recent years, including from yours truly, this is truly the opportunity for him to earn every dime of his paycheck in an attempt to preserve the viability of the Chinese supply chain that he built. He will certainly call back to his previous arguments: massive tariffs on Apple products will do a lot of damage to an American company and give a big advantage to foreign ones, particularly Samsung. That worked during the first Trump term.The problem is that other bullet point in Cook’s tenure: one can certainly make the argument that Apple, more than any other company, is responsible for China’s dominance in manufacturing, particularly when it comes to high tech componentry that the U.S. is so far behind in. Apple’s response might be that while that is true, at least the company has been trying to diversify.Trump’s new tariff package raises levies on Chinese goods to at least 54% while imposing a 26% rate on Indian goods…Before tariffs were announced, Apple was on pace to make about 25 million iPhones in India this year, said Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan. Normally, around 10 million of those would supply the local Indian market. If Apple were to redirect all India-made iPhones to the U.S., it could meet about 50% of American demand for the device this year, he said. Apple has been working to increase its India iPhone production for years…Trump-imposed tariffs obviously only apply to U.S. imports, while 42% of Apple’s revenue last quarter was from the Americas as a whole. That means that at least 58% of Apple’s revenue — I’d guess between 65–70% — is unaffected (and probably a larger portion of iPhone sales specifically). The most obvious medium-term fix for Apple is to ramp up India (and a much smaller operation in Brazil, which faces only 10% tariffs) to serve the U.S. market, while serving the rest of the world from China.Apple makes many iPhone components in China but in recent years has assembled more of the devices in India. That allows the company to stamp India as the country of origin for those devices because they undergo “substantial transformation” there—from a pile of parts to a functioning smartphone. Since 2017, Apple has worked with partners to assemble iPhones in India, starting with older models and gradually expanding to include the latest ones. The policy both addresses China risk and avoids import tariffs when selling in India, one of the world’s fastest-growing smartphone markets.The fact that India does little more than assemble Chinese-sourced components gets at one reason for the blanket tariffs; Chinese imports to the U.S. have actually fallen over the last several years, but a lot of that is because of similar schemes to do final assembly in countries like Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico, or, in this case India.Yet the company’s production is still centered in China. Its manufacturing partners such as Foxconn operate huge facilities there, taking advantage of the country’s deep network of suppliers, skilled labor and government support.Building on the blanket tariff point, probably the biggest question right now is if the goal is to fundamentally reshape the global economic order, or to simply cut off China. If it’s the former, there is arguably less incentive for Apple to change anything: if they’re going to feel the pain everywhere, then it probably makes the most sense to simply keep its supply chain based in China, with final assembly elsewhere.Vietnam, which has become a hub for making AirPods, the Apple Watch and iPads, received a tariff of 46% under Trump’s plan, nearly as high as China’s. But Trump suggested in a social-media post Friday after speaking to Vietnam’s leader that he might offer a better deal.If it’s the latter, however, then these final assembly shifts to other countries should be viewed as a positive. A company of Apple’s scale doesn’t shift its entire supply chain overnight; it shifts parts that are easier to shift, like final assembly, and that forms its own gravity for high value components. Indeed, this is exactly what happened in China: it used to be that China actually contributed very little economic value to the final cost of an iPhone; I wrote in 2014 inPublishers and the Smiling Curve:While the iPhone got less attention than usual at its launch event (due to the Apple Watch), by far the greatest amount of time was spent on its camera. And for good reason: review after review has lauded the iPhone 6 camera as possibly the best phone camera ever. It turns out, though, that there are only a couple of companies in the world that are capable of producing such a camera, and Largan Precision is one of them. That is why they provide the camera for the iPhone 6 (as they have for several models now) and that is why their stock performance looks like this:True, their $9.6 billion market cap barely registers when compared to Apple’s $623.6 billion number, but when you consider that Largan Precision is a relatively tiny company that’s pretty darn impressive, and I can assure you the founders are living much more comfortably than all but the most senior Apple managers. Moreover, it’s not that far off from Foxconn, who actually builds the iPhone; their market cap is only 5x greater than the maker of a single component.Seven years later and Largan Precision was under threat, along with a host of other non-Chinese suppliers; fromCommonwealth Magazine:With the latest iPhone 13 model, Chinese outfit Sunny Optical has finally broken into the Apple supply chain, marking the first occasion upon which a PRC-based supplier has entered the iPhone’s optical parts realm to capture supply of one of the model’s three main lenses, namely the 7P (seven stack) wide angle lens…Other than semiconductors, Taiwan’s entire Apple supply chain faces the threat of being overtaken by PRC-based manufacturers. Mid-year in 2021, Apple released a list of its top 200 major suppliers. Of the names on the list, the number of Chinese companies rose to 51, overtaking Taiwan’s 48 suppliers for the first time to become Apple’s largest supplier by country.Largan Precision is probably a bad example; they are the best in the world, and have bounced back to take more iPhone share, while Sunny Optical fell off (althoughthey may be back this year). What is more pertinent is the overall trend towards Chinese component suppliers, which followed final assembly.There is one fly in this ointment that is worth noting: a big reason why those Chinese component suppliers got off the ground is because of Apple not just giving them a buyer but also investing heavily in R&D on their behalf in an attempt to undercut the power of companies like Largan Precision. Again from Commonwealth:One high-level Apple supply chain executive relates that Apple could not countenance Largan’s nearly 70-percent profit margins, and did everything in its power to get Largan to drop its prices. Most analysts anticipated that Apple would adopt 8P stack lenses for the iPhone 12, launched in 2020. However, it held steady with 7P lenses, and continued to do so with the new iPhone 13 as well. With nowhere to put the 8P and 9P lenses they have already developed for some time, Largan saw third quarter gross margins drop to below 60 percent for the first time in the third quarter, marking a five-year low.One optics maker executive revealed that, in its efforts to support Sunny, Apple relaxed its optical quality specifications, since Apple planned to use software to correct hardware deficiencies. “Their smartphone CPU/GPU capacity is so powerful that they can lower their demands on hardware components,” he adds. Professor Winston Hsu of the National Taiwan University Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, also offered that in recent years Apple has had the capacity to apply deep learning technology to facial recognition and backgrounds, and make minute lighting adjustments to significantly improve imaging results. “So Largan’s lenses have become not as important,” he states. In other words, with Huawei out of the picture, plus the steep rise in smartphone computational capacity, Apple had suddenly bridged the gap between Largan and Sunny Optics overnight.Again, this isn’t the best example —credit to Largan Precision for fighting back— but it is something that has happened up-and-down the iPhone supply chain. Apple hasn’t simply sat idly by and benefited from China’s technological development; it has actively pushed and accelerated it.What the company clearly needs to do is apply that same energy somewhere other than China. That, though, will take time, and as I noted earlier, is only viable if the Trump administration provides clarity about the actual goal of these tariffs.Apple in the Short TermFrom theTimes of India:Apple transported five planes full of iPhones and other products from India to the US in just three days during the final week of March, a senior Indian official confirmed to The Times of India. The urgent shipments were made to avoid a new 10% reciprocal tariff imposed by US President Donald Trump’s administration that took effect on April 5. Sources said that Apple currently has no plans to increase retail prices in India or other markets despite the tariffs.To mitigate the impact, the company rapidly moved inventory from manufacturing centres in India and China to the US, even though this period is typically a slow shipping season. “Factories in India and China and other key locations had been shipping products to the US in anticipation of the higher tariffs,” according to one source.I imagine there were even more planes flying from China over the last few days, and I wouldn’t be surprised if Apple pulled from supply elsewhere in the world as well (perhaps Cook needs to revisit his famous axiom thatinventory is fundamentally evil).To that end, I would imagine that Apple is going to try and hold the line on pricing in the U.S. for as long as it can; for the iPhone specifically I wouldn’t expect any changes until the the next iPhone launch in September. While Apple has changed prices mid-cycle in countries facing significant currency changes, they havestudiously tried to avoid that in the U.S. market, which has the added risk of angering President Trump even as the company will be seeking some sort of exemption.That noted,I have been documenting for several years nowhow Apple has actually been cutting iPhone prices in real-terms:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904Surely the price increase I’ve been expecting for a while now has to come this year! Apple can eat the tariffs for a few months, but I don’t think the company can tolerate it in the long run, and again, they are due.Tech’s Complement RiskThe biggest takeaway from all of this, however, should be to reiterate what a disaster this is for Apple, and for tech generally. To go back to what I wrote last fall inA Chance to Build:Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.This benefit has extended to every tech company, whether they make their own hardware or not. Software has to run on something, whether that be servers or computers or phones; hardware is software’s most essential complement. Joel Spolsky, in his canonical post aboutcommoditizing your complements, wrote:Every product in the marketplace has substitutes and complements…A complement is a product that you usually buy together with another product. Gas and cars are complements. Computer hardware is a classic complement of computer operating systems. And babysitters are a complement of dinner at fine restaurants. In a small town, when the local five star restaurant has a two-for-one Valentine’s day special, the local babysitters double their rates. (Actually, the nine-year-olds get roped into early service.)…Demand for a product increases when the price of its complements decreases. In general, a company’s strategic interest is going to be to get the price of their complements as low as possible. The lowest theoretically sustainable price would be the “commodity price” — the price that arises when you have a bunch of competitors offering indistinguishable goods…If you can run your software anywhere, that makes hardware more of a commodity. As hardware prices go down, the market expands, driving more demand for software (and leaving customers with extra money to spend on software which can now be more expensive.)…Spolsky’s post was written in 2002, well before the rise of smartphones and, more pertinently, ad-supported software that now permeates our world. That, though, only makes his point: hardware has become so cheap and so widespread that software can be astronomically valuable even as it’s free to end users. Which, by the way, is that other part of the boon to consumers I noted above.I wrote in the final section:To that end, the risk for tech is that tariffs specifically and Trump’s approach to trade generally do more damage to the golden goose than expected. More expensive hardware ultimately constricts the market for software; tariffs in violation of agreements like the ITA give the opening for other countries to impose levies of their own, and U.S. tech companies could very well be popular targets.U.S. tech exports are primarily software and services, which aren’t calculated in things like trade deficits; one suspects that that means that the Trump administration isn’t very concerned about them, although countries looking for retaliation targets surely will be. That, though, pales in comparison to the costs of blowing up the hardware supply chain, tech’s most essential complement. This isn’t, in the end, just an Apple story.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Beijing lashed back at President Trump’s threat of even higher tariffs on China, raising the specter of an all-out trade war between the world’s two biggest economies. “If the U.S. insists on its own way, China will fight to the end,” the country’s Commerce Ministry said Tuesday. Trump had said he would slap an extra 50% tariff on China if Beijing didn’t drop plans to retaliate against extra levies he announced last week. In a sign Beijing is digging in for a protracted battle, the government threw its weight behind the stock market and devalued the yuan against the dollar, pulling a reference rate below a key threshold for the first time since the fall of 2023. In spite of the spiraling tensions, global markets broadly rose early Tuesday, paring some losses after a bruising three-day selloff. U.S. stock futures pointed higher, after market whiplash Monday ultimately left major indexes largely unchanged. Giving investors some hope, the Trump administration signaled it was open to discussing lower tariffs with Japan, Israel and some other countries. Japanese stocks jumped after Tokyo named a chief tariff negotiator and Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the country would be prioritized in trade talks. This is not, as I highlighted inyesterday’s Article, the worst case scenario; that is war in Taiwan, which would not only abruptly end Apple’s China supply chain, but also its Taiwanese one (and potentially Japanese and South Korean ones as well). That is an existential risk to the company. Apple plans to send more iPhones to the U.S. from India to offset the high cost of China tariffs, people familiar with the matter said. The adjustments are a short-term stopgap while Apple attempts to win an exemption from President Trump’s tariffs—which Chief Executive Tim Cook obtained during the first Trump administration. The company sees the current situation as too uncertain to upend long-term investments in its supply chain, which is centered around China, the people said. For all the criticism of Tim Cook, which has been mounting in recent years, including from yours truly, this is truly the opportunity for him to earn every dime of his paycheck in an attempt to preserve the viability of the Chinese supply chain that he built. He will certainly call back to his previous arguments: massive tariffs on Apple products will do a lot of damage to an American company and give a big advantage to foreign ones, particularly Samsung. That worked during the first Trump term. The problem is that other bullet point in Cook’s tenure: one can certainly make the argument that Apple, more than any other company, is responsible for China’s dominance in manufacturing, particularly when it comes to high tech componentry that the U.S. is so far behind in. Apple’s response might be that while that is true, at least the company has been trying to diversify. Trump’s new tariff package raises levies on Chinese goods to at least 54% while imposing a 26% rate on Indian goods…Before tariffs were announced, Apple was on pace to make about 25 million iPhones in India this year, said Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan. Normally, around 10 million of those would supply the local Indian market. If Apple were to redirect all India-made iPhones to the U.S., it could meet about 50% of American demand for the device this year, he said. Apple has been working to increase its India iPhone production for years… Trump-imposed tariffs obviously only apply to U.S. imports, while 42% of Apple’s revenue last quarter was from the Americas as a whole. That means that at least 58% of Apple’s revenue — I’d guess between 65–70% — is unaffected (and probably a larger portion of iPhone sales specifically). The most obvious medium-term fix for Apple is to ramp up India (and a much smaller operation in Brazil, which faces only 10% tariffs) to serve the U.S. market, while serving the rest of the world from China. Apple makes many iPhone components in China but in recent years has assembled more of the devices in India. That allows the company to stamp India as the country of origin for those devices because they undergo “substantial transformation” there—from a pile of parts to a functioning smartphone. Since 2017, Apple has worked with partners to assemble iPhones in India, starting with older models and gradually expanding to include the latest ones. The policy both addresses China risk and avoids import tariffs when selling in India, one of the world’s fastest-growing smartphone markets. The fact that India does little more than assemble Chinese-sourced components gets at one reason for the blanket tariffs; Chinese imports to the U.S. have actually fallen over the last several years, but a lot of that is because of similar schemes to do final assembly in countries like Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico, or, in this case India. Yet the company’s production is still centered in China. Its manufacturing partners such as Foxconn operate huge facilities there, taking advantage of the country’s deep network of suppliers, skilled labor and government support. Building on the blanket tariff point, probably the biggest question right now is if the goal is to fundamentally reshape the global economic order, or to simply cut off China. If it’s the former, there is arguably less incentive for Apple to change anything: if they’re going to feel the pain everywhere, then it probably makes the most sense to simply keep its supply chain based in China, with final assembly elsewhere. Vietnam, which has become a hub for making AirPods, the Apple Watch and iPads, received a tariff of 46% under Trump’s plan, nearly as high as China’s. But Trump suggested in a social-media post Friday after speaking to Vietnam’s leader that he might offer a better deal. If it’s the latter, however, then these final assembly shifts to other countries should be viewed as a positive. A company of Apple’s scale doesn’t shift its entire supply chain overnight; it shifts parts that are easier to shift, like final assembly, and that forms its own gravity for high value components. Indeed, this is exactly what happened in China: it used to be that China actually contributed very little economic value to the final cost of an iPhone; I wrote in 2014 inPublishers and the Smiling Curve: While the iPhone got less attention than usual at its launch event (due to the Apple Watch), by far the greatest amount of time was spent on its camera. And for good reason: review after review has lauded the iPhone 6 camera as possibly the best phone camera ever. It turns out, though, that there are only a couple of companies in the world that are capable of producing such a camera, and Largan Precision is one of them. That is why they provide the camera for the iPhone 6 (as they have for several models now) and that is why their stock performance looks like this: True, their $9.6 billion market cap barely registers when compared to Apple’s $623.6 billion number, but when you consider that Largan Precision is a relatively tiny company that’s pretty darn impressive, and I can assure you the founders are living much more comfortably than all but the most senior Apple managers. Moreover, it’s not that far off from Foxconn, who actually builds the iPhone; their market cap is only 5x greater than the maker of a single component. With the latest iPhone 13 model, Chinese outfit Sunny Optical has finally broken into the Apple supply chain, marking the first occasion upon which a PRC-based supplier has entered the iPhone’s optical parts realm to capture supply of one of the model’s three main lenses, namely the 7P (seven stack) wide angle lens… Other than semiconductors, Taiwan’s entire Apple supply chain faces the threat of being overtaken by PRC-based manufacturers. Mid-year in 2021, Apple released a list of its top 200 major suppliers. Of the names on the list, the number of Chinese companies rose to 51, overtaking Taiwan’s 48 suppliers for the first time to become Apple’s largest supplier by country. Largan Precision is probably a bad example; they are the best in the world, and have bounced back to take more iPhone share, while Sunny Optical fell off (althoughthey may be back this year). What is more pertinent is the overall trend towards Chinese component suppliers, which followed final assembly. There is one fly in this ointment that is worth noting: a big reason why those Chinese component suppliers got off the ground is because of Apple not just giving them a buyer but also investing heavily in R&D on their behalf in an attempt to undercut the power of companies like Largan Precision. Again from Commonwealth: One high-level Apple supply chain executive relates that Apple could not countenance Largan’s nearly 70-percent profit margins, and did everything in its power to get Largan to drop its prices. Most analysts anticipated that Apple would adopt 8P stack lenses for the iPhone 12, launched in 2020. However, it held steady with 7P lenses, and continued to do so with the new iPhone 13 as well. With nowhere to put the 8P and 9P lenses they have already developed for some time, Largan saw third quarter gross margins drop to below 60 percent for the first time in the third quarter, marking a five-year low. One optics maker executive revealed that, in its efforts to support Sunny, Apple relaxed its optical quality specifications, since Apple planned to use software to correct hardware deficiencies. “Their smartphone CPU/GPU capacity is so powerful that they can lower their demands on hardware components,” he adds. Professor Winston Hsu of the National Taiwan University Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, also offered that in recent years Apple has had the capacity to apply deep learning technology to facial recognition and backgrounds, and make minute lighting adjustments to significantly improve imaging results. “So Largan’s lenses have become not as important,” he states. In other words, with Huawei out of the picture, plus the steep rise in smartphone computational capacity, Apple had suddenly bridged the gap between Largan and Sunny Optics overnight. Again, this isn’t the best example —credit to Largan Precision for fighting back— but it is something that has happened up-and-down the iPhone supply chain. Apple hasn’t simply sat idly by and benefited from China’s technological development; it has actively pushed and accelerated it. What the company clearly needs to do is apply that same energy somewhere other than China. That, though, will take time, and as I noted earlier, is only viable if the Trump administration provides clarity about the actual goal of these tariffs. Apple transported five planes full of iPhones and other products from India to the US in just three days during the final week of March, a senior Indian official confirmed to The Times of India. The urgent shipments were made to avoid a new 10% reciprocal tariff imposed by US President Donald Trump’s administration that took effect on April 5. Sources said that Apple currently has no plans to increase retail prices in India or other markets despite the tariffs. To mitigate the impact, the company rapidly moved inventory from manufacturing centres in India and China to the US, even though this period is typically a slow shipping season. “Factories in India and China and other key locations had been shipping products to the US in anticipation of the higher tariffs,” according to one source. I imagine there were even more planes flying from China over the last few days, and I wouldn’t be surprised if Apple pulled from supply elsewhere in the world as well (perhaps Cook needs to revisit his famous axiom thatinventory is fundamentally evil). To that end, I would imagine that Apple is going to try and hold the line on pricing in the U.S. for as long as it can; for the iPhone specifically I wouldn’t expect any changes until the the next iPhone launch in September. While Apple has changed prices mid-cycle in countries facing significant currency changes, they havestudiously tried to avoid that in the U.S. market, which has the added risk of angering President Trump even as the company will be seeking some sort of exemption. Surely the price increase I’ve been expecting for a while now has to come this year! Apple can eat the tariffs for a few months, but I don’t think the company can tolerate it in the long run, and again, they are due. Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all. This benefit has extended to every tech company, whether they make their own hardware or not. Software has to run on something, whether that be servers or computers or phones; hardware is software’s most essential complement. Joel Spolsky, in his canonical post aboutcommoditizing your complements, wrote: Every product in the marketplace has substitutes and complements…A complement is a product that you usually buy together with another product. Gas and cars are complements. Computer hardware is a classic complement of computer operating systems. And babysitters are a complement of dinner at fine restaurants. In a small town, when the local five star restaurant has a two-for-one Valentine’s day special, the local babysitters double their rates. (Actually, the nine-year-olds get roped into early service.)… Demand for a product increases when the price of its complements decreases. In general, a company’s strategic interest is going to be to get the price of their complements as low as possible. The lowest theoretically sustainable price would be the “commodity price” — the price that arises when you have a bunch of competitors offering indistinguishable goods…If you can run your software anywhere, that makes hardware more of a commodity. As hardware prices go down, the market expands, driving more demand for software (and leaving customers with extra money to spend on software which can now be more expensive.)… Spolsky’s post was written in 2002, well before the rise of smartphones and, more pertinently, ad-supported software that now permeates our world. That, though, only makes his point: hardware has become so cheap and so widespread that software can be astronomically valuable even as it’s free to end users. Which, by the way, is that other part of the boon to consumers I noted above. To that end, the risk for tech is that tariffs specifically and Trump’s approach to trade generally do more damage to the golden goose than expected. More expensive hardware ultimately constricts the market for software; tariffs in violation of agreements like the ITA give the opening for other countries to impose levies of their own, and U.S. tech companies could very well be popular targets. U.S. tech exports are primarily software and services, which aren’t calculated in things like trade deficits; one suspects that that means that the Trump administration isn’t very concerned about them, although countries looking for retaliation targets surely will be. That, though, pales in comparison to the costs of blowing up the hardware supply chain, tech’s most essential complement. This isn’t, in the end, just an Apple story. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025