# [PODCAST] Trump on Rogan, The Voters Decide, The Podcast Election

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/trump-on-rogan-the-voters-decide-the-podcast-election/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.bvs8Sw6Fog0_PhKdaLP4q3EtrKlEbJIongzmf_URigF_QgSmBHcp5wmurL5bNrQvqFYsabcHj4Qv_PrfEeiOCJDk-13FWbvJTjoEMH-Z9IDbDpHx28psLaLg1nLUMoNbgfM08f0TKBA6sl2of-srOP64VHNwy2XarBvDEr2F2VEX3FKNONxXScz9sex37NR-w6MsARCQLtxIpllwyIyf-VVgadOzL44CsDQlcHu3YbZO_PAcvCzJS6c3axGUEKuSaWqKXMuyIZDAlKqboej0VDPNUZf5Oc3RW5kcmWZ58uDLEDQOyOEZk4n1UsEWvkOeF4F-JWbB-5boKv-DvvDlBg
**Atlas ID**: 229675
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.935469

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirTrump on Rogan, The Voters Decide, The Podcast ElectionMonday, October 28, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, last week’sStratechery Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioffran on Friday instead of Thursday. Meanwhile, onThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed stablecoins andStripe’s acquisition of Bridge.On to the Update:Trump on RoganEarlier this month Dave Winermarked 30 years of bloggingand his creation of a medium that leveraged his earlier work developing RSS; in 2003 Winer extended RSS to include links to audio files, to deliver what we now call a podcast (the name would be coineda year laterin reference to the iPod). Bill Simmons was a relatively early adopter of the format, launching the B.S. Report in 2007; a year later he managed to land a shockingly high profile guest: presidential candidate Barack Obama.Sadly, the podcast never happened: ESPN killed it, with a spokesman tellingDeadspin:It’s absolutely not an issue about any one candidate. Our position is that when they’re down to the final two candidates, we’ll look for options to interview each accordingly. Fans don’t expect political coverage on our air. We did Kerry and Bush on ESPN. Separate one-on-ones that were sports related.It was, as they say, a different time. Simmons would eventually be allowed to interview then-President Obamain 2012, but it is this election, in 2024, that is undoubtedly the podcast election. FromBloomberg:Former President Donald Trump said he’d consider entirely replacing income taxes with tariffs, conceded he had botched senior staff appointments, and teased a possible revelation about extraterrestrial life during a freewheeling three-hour podcast with comedian Joe Rogan on Friday. It was an unorthodox — and lengthy — conversation for a presidential candidate, underscoring the Republican nominee’s outreach to young male voters and quest for wave-making spectacle during the closing days of the presidential campaign.The podcast, recorded Friday during a visit to Austin, is the latest effort by Trump to broaden his electoral appeal beyond his fervent conservative base with polls showing him deadlocked with Democrat Kamala Harris…The conversation stretched long enough that Trump ended up hours late for a rally in swing-state Michigan, where hundreds of supporters trickled out of the venue as temperatures dropped while waiting for him to arrive. But Rogan, widely considered the most popular podcaster in the world — boasting 17.5 million subscribers on YouTube and 15.7 million on Spotify — offered a unique platform for the former president to reach not only a massive audience, but one full of the type of independent voters both campaigns have said could decide the election.I thoughtthe podcast was quite compellingthanks in part to the format; Trump himself seemed shocked it ran so long, andRogan said in a follow-up discussion:He’s got this ability to just keep going. This is what’s crazy: the podcast was three hours long. The guy didn’t pee before the podcast, he didn’t pee after the podcast. He just left…he just sat here and we talked and they were freaking out out there because he was two hours late for something he was doing in Michigan, and he didn’t give a fuck, he said “I know this is going to be bigger than that, let’s just keep going. We did three hours!It was indeed bigger: the YouTube video is up to 33 million views, and of course the episode — it being a podcast and all — is also available on RSS and on Spotify (where I listened to it). Now to be fair, YouTube counts a view when a user clicks play and watches for at least 30 seconds, i.e. 0.3% of this particular episode, but it seems certain that Trump reached a far larger audience than he eventually commanded in Michigan.The Voters Decide2015 might have been different. When Trump first started running for President, his rallies not only drew huge crowds but also drew huge ratings, thanks to the fact the cable news channels took to showing most of them. I dug into why in 2016’sThe Voters Decide, which took its name from the bookThe Party Decides:Step back to the world as it was: the one where newspapers (and TV stations, etc.) were gatekeepers thanks to their ownership of production and distribution. In this world any viable political campaign had to play nicely with those who ran the press in the hopes of gaining positive earned media, endorsements, etc. Just as important, though, was the need to buy advertising, as that was the only way to reach voters at scale. And advertising required lots of money, which meant donors. And then, once the actual election rolled around, a campaign needed an effective GOTV effort, which took not only money but also the sort of manpower that could only be rustled up by organizations like labor unions, churches, etc. It is all these disparate pieces: partisan media members, advertisers, donors, large associations, plus consultants and specialists to manage them that, along with traditional politicians, made up the “party” in The Party Decides.By 2016this gatekeeping function had disappeared thanks to the Internet; the channel that mattered was social media, which actually created a vacuum in terms of controlling the flow of political information:[There is] a curious dynamic in politics in particular: there is no one dominant force when it comes to the dispersal of political information, and that includes the parties described in the previous section. Remember, in a Facebook world, information suppliers are modularized and commoditized as most people get their news from their feed. This has two implications:All news sources are competing on an equal footing; those controlled or bought by a party are not inherently privileged.The likelihood any particular message will “break out” is based not on who is propagating said message but on how many users are receptive to hearing it. The power has shifted from the supply side to the demand side:This is a big problem for the parties as described inThe Party Decides. Remember, in Noel and company’s description party actors care more about their policy preferences than they do voter preferences, but in an aggregated world it is voters aka users who decide which issues get traction and which don’t. And, by extension, the most successful politicians in an aggregated world are not those who serve the party but rather those who tell voters what they most want to hear.That, as I noted, was Trump, and the media, eager for eyeballs, saw Trump as a massive moneymaker — and then he won.To say that the political climate and the media’s own view of itself has shifted over the last eight years is a dramatic understatement; see the brouhaha over the weekend over The Washington Post’s decision to not endorse a candidate this year. Part of that shift has been a markedly different approach to Trump’s rallies: they are rarely televised now, and the coverage that does happen is, it seems fair to say, decidedly oppositional.In other words, I may have somewhat overstated my case in 2016: the removal of the media’s gatekeeping function motivated TV networks in particular to give Trump all kinds of free air time for financial reasons, but that wasn’t going to happen again for political reasons. Trump still had the Internet — and this time, a social network in X whose owner is actively campaigning on his behalf — but his ability to broadcast was severely curtailed.The Podcast ElectionEnter podcasts: before Rogan Trump had already appeared on12 different podcasts, while Vice President Kamala Harris had appeared on six. What makes this meaningful is that over the past eight years these podcasts have accrued massive audiences of their own. In 2016 social media had created a vacuum; that vacuum has been filled by people like Joe Rogan who have a direct connection to their listeners.That takes me back to those incredible viewing numbers: it’s not just that presidential candidates have an alternative to the media; it’s that they actually have access to channels that broadcast to far greater numbers than the media can reach today. Part of this is the demise of media business models, particularly cable:Cable penetration will soon fall under 50%, which is around 50 million homes:Watching a rally on cable, though, requires you to be in a specific place at a specific time; podcasts have no such limitation — indeed, the YouTube views on the Rogan podcast continue to shoot up, two days after it aired. That, too, is a hallmark of the Internet: users don’t just get served what they want, they also get it when and where they want.Media shifts like this have happened before. In 1920 Warren Harding delivered the first presidential address over the radio; it was Franklin Roosevelt who truly mastered the medium, though, with his famous fireside chats. Then, a generation after that, the televised debates between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon helped carry the former to victory; the master of that medium was probably Ronald Reagan, a former actor.Television has had a good run since then, but while Obama pioneered the podcast appearance, it seems clear that Trump this cycle has cemented their place as the way most people will learn about candidates. And, honestly, this seems like a good thing: it’s hard to fake a three hour conversation, for better or for worse. I will also note that I myself see an increased appreciation for the medium: see last week’s Stratechery Interview, for example, or the other CEOs I have had a chance to talk to with increasing frequency.Of course that’s no free lunch from my perspective: one of the challenges of CEO interviews is that a lot of executives are in their position because they are disciplined and wary of speaking freely; that doesn’t make for a very entertaining podcast, which is why it’s great fun to talk to a character like Benioff. The reason I mention this is because of the effect this may end up having on presidential selection in the long run: a big reason the aforementioned televised debate helped Kennedy is because he was much more telegenic than Nixon. The currency of podcasts, on the other hand, is humor and story-telling and the ability to range widely across topics; say what you want about Trump, he is definitely funny and prone to long-winded story-telling!Of course Trump is one-of-a-kind; you could just as easily make the case that his real asset has always been his celebrity, which helps him garner attention in the first place. That certainly matters for getting started, and will continue to; I think, though, that the ability to hold one’s own on a podcast is, in the long run, going to be a greater selection effect for President than people might expect.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedExponent Podcast: The Backlash Has ArrivedDateFriday, November 11, 2016Podcast: Exponent Episode 082 — A Podcast About PodcastsDateSaturday, June 11, 2016The Future of PodcastingDateTuesday, June 7, 2016←An Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff about AI AbundanceMeta’s AI Abundance→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Trump on Rogan, The Voters Decide, The Podcast ElectionMonday, October 28, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, last week’sStratechery Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioffran on Friday instead of Thursday. Meanwhile, onThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed stablecoins andStripe’s acquisition of Bridge.On to the Update:Trump on RoganEarlier this month Dave Winermarked 30 years of bloggingand his creation of a medium that leveraged his earlier work developing RSS; in 2003 Winer extended RSS to include links to audio files, to deliver what we now call a podcast (the name would be coineda year laterin reference to the iPod). Bill Simmons was a relatively early adopter of the format, launching the B.S. Report in 2007; a year later he managed to land a shockingly high profile guest: presidential candidate Barack Obama.Sadly, the podcast never happened: ESPN killed it, with a spokesman tellingDeadspin:It’s absolutely not an issue about any one candidate. Our position is that when they’re down to the final two candidates, we’ll look for options to interview each accordingly. Fans don’t expect political coverage on our air. We did Kerry and Bush on ESPN. Separate one-on-ones that were sports related.It was, as they say, a different time. Simmons would eventually be allowed to interview then-President Obamain 2012, but it is this election, in 2024, that is undoubtedly the podcast election. FromBloomberg:Former President Donald Trump said he’d consider entirely replacing income taxes with tariffs, conceded he had botched senior staff appointments, and teased a possible revelation about extraterrestrial life during a freewheeling three-hour podcast with comedian Joe Rogan on Friday. It was an unorthodox — and lengthy — conversation for a presidential candidate, underscoring the Republican nominee’s outreach to young male voters and quest for wave-making spectacle during the closing days of the presidential campaign.The podcast, recorded Friday during a visit to Austin, is the latest effort by Trump to broaden his electoral appeal beyond his fervent conservative base with polls showing him deadlocked with Democrat Kamala Harris…The conversation stretched long enough that Trump ended up hours late for a rally in swing-state Michigan, where hundreds of supporters trickled out of the venue as temperatures dropped while waiting for him to arrive. But Rogan, widely considered the most popular podcaster in the world — boasting 17.5 million subscribers on YouTube and 15.7 million on Spotify — offered a unique platform for the former president to reach not only a massive audience, but one full of the type of independent voters both campaigns have said could decide the election.I thoughtthe podcast was quite compellingthanks in part to the format; Trump himself seemed shocked it ran so long, andRogan said in a follow-up discussion:He’s got this ability to just keep going. This is what’s crazy: the podcast was three hours long. The guy didn’t pee before the podcast, he didn’t pee after the podcast. He just left…he just sat here and we talked and they were freaking out out there because he was two hours late for something he was doing in Michigan, and he didn’t give a fuck, he said “I know this is going to be bigger than that, let’s just keep going. We did three hours!It was indeed bigger: the YouTube video is up to 33 million views, and of course the episode — it being a podcast and all — is also available on RSS and on Spotify (where I listened to it). Now to be fair, YouTube counts a view when a user clicks play and watches for at least 30 seconds, i.e. 0.3% of this particular episode, but it seems certain that Trump reached a far larger audience than he eventually commanded in Michigan.The Voters Decide2015 might have been different. When Trump first started running for President, his rallies not only drew huge crowds but also drew huge ratings, thanks to the fact the cable news channels took to showing most of them. I dug into why in 2016’sThe Voters Decide, which took its name from the bookThe Party Decides:Step back to the world as it was: the one where newspapers (and TV stations, etc.) were gatekeepers thanks to their ownership of production and distribution. In this world any viable political campaign had to play nicely with those who ran the press in the hopes of gaining positive earned media, endorsements, etc. Just as important, though, was the need to buy advertising, as that was the only way to reach voters at scale. And advertising required lots of money, which meant donors. And then, once the actual election rolled around, a campaign needed an effective GOTV effort, which took not only money but also the sort of manpower that could only be rustled up by organizations like labor unions, churches, etc. It is all these disparate pieces: partisan media members, advertisers, donors, large associations, plus consultants and specialists to manage them that, along with traditional politicians, made up the “party” in The Party Decides.By 2016this gatekeeping function had disappeared thanks to the Internet; the channel that mattered was social media, which actually created a vacuum in terms of controlling the flow of political information:[There is] a curious dynamic in politics in particular: there is no one dominant force when it comes to the dispersal of political information, and that includes the parties described in the previous section. Remember, in a Facebook world, information suppliers are modularized and commoditized as most people get their news from their feed. This has two implications:All news sources are competing on an equal footing; those controlled or bought by a party are not inherently privileged.The likelihood any particular message will “break out” is based not on who is propagating said message but on how many users are receptive to hearing it. The power has shifted from the supply side to the demand side:This is a big problem for the parties as described inThe Party Decides. Remember, in Noel and company’s description party actors care more about their policy preferences than they do voter preferences, but in an aggregated world it is voters aka users who decide which issues get traction and which don’t. And, by extension, the most successful politicians in an aggregated world are not those who serve the party but rather those who tell voters what they most want to hear.That, as I noted, was Trump, and the media, eager for eyeballs, saw Trump as a massive moneymaker — and then he won.To say that the political climate and the media’s own view of itself has shifted over the last eight years is a dramatic understatement; see the brouhaha over the weekend over The Washington Post’s decision to not endorse a candidate this year. Part of that shift has been a markedly different approach to Trump’s rallies: they are rarely televised now, and the coverage that does happen is, it seems fair to say, decidedly oppositional.In other words, I may have somewhat overstated my case in 2016: the removal of the media’s gatekeeping function motivated TV networks in particular to give Trump all kinds of free air time for financial reasons, but that wasn’t going to happen again for political reasons. Trump still had the Internet — and this time, a social network in X whose owner is actively campaigning on his behalf — but his ability to broadcast was severely curtailed.The Podcast ElectionEnter podcasts: before Rogan Trump had already appeared on12 different podcasts, while Vice President Kamala Harris had appeared on six. What makes this meaningful is that over the past eight years these podcasts have accrued massive audiences of their own. In 2016 social media had created a vacuum; that vacuum has been filled by people like Joe Rogan who have a direct connection to their listeners.That takes me back to those incredible viewing numbers: it’s not just that presidential candidates have an alternative to the media; it’s that they actually have access to channels that broadcast to far greater numbers than the media can reach today. Part of this is the demise of media business models, particularly cable:Cable penetration will soon fall under 50%, which is around 50 million homes:Watching a rally on cable, though, requires you to be in a specific place at a specific time; podcasts have no such limitation — indeed, the YouTube views on the Rogan podcast continue to shoot up, two days after it aired. That, too, is a hallmark of the Internet: users don’t just get served what they want, they also get it when and where they want.Media shifts like this have happened before. In 1920 Warren Harding delivered the first presidential address over the radio; it was Franklin Roosevelt who truly mastered the medium, though, with his famous fireside chats. Then, a generation after that, the televised debates between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon helped carry the former to victory; the master of that medium was probably Ronald Reagan, a former actor.Television has had a good run since then, but while Obama pioneered the podcast appearance, it seems clear that Trump this cycle has cemented their place as the way most people will learn about candidates. And, honestly, this seems like a good thing: it’s hard to fake a three hour conversation, for better or for worse. I will also note that I myself see an increased appreciation for the medium: see last week’s Stratechery Interview, for example, or the other CEOs I have had a chance to talk to with increasing frequency.Of course that’s no free lunch from my perspective: one of the challenges of CEO interviews is that a lot of executives are in their position because they are disciplined and wary of speaking freely; that doesn’t make for a very entertaining podcast, which is why it’s great fun to talk to a character like Benioff. The reason I mention this is because of the effect this may end up having on presidential selection in the long run: a big reason the aforementioned televised debate helped Kennedy is because he was much more telegenic than Nixon. The currency of podcasts, on the other hand, is humor and story-telling and the ability to range widely across topics; say what you want about Trump, he is definitely funny and prone to long-winded story-telling!Of course Trump is one-of-a-kind; you could just as easily make the case that his real asset has always been his celebrity, which helps him garner attention in the first place. That certainly matters for getting started, and will continue to; I think, though, that the ability to hold one’s own on a podcast is, in the long run, going to be a greater selection effect for President than people might expect.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedExponent Podcast: The Backlash Has ArrivedDateFriday, November 11, 2016Podcast: Exponent Episode 082 — A Podcast About PodcastsDateSaturday, June 11, 2016The Future of PodcastingDateTuesday, June 7, 2016←An Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff about AI AbundanceMeta’s AI Abundance→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Trump on Rogan, The Voters Decide, The Podcast ElectionMonday, October 28, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, last week’sStratechery Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioffran on Friday instead of Thursday. Meanwhile, onThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed stablecoins andStripe’s acquisition of Bridge.On to the Update:Trump on RoganEarlier this month Dave Winermarked 30 years of bloggingand his creation of a medium that leveraged his earlier work developing RSS; in 2003 Winer extended RSS to include links to audio files, to deliver what we now call a podcast (the name would be coineda year laterin reference to the iPod). Bill Simmons was a relatively early adopter of the format, launching the B.S. Report in 2007; a year later he managed to land a shockingly high profile guest: presidential candidate Barack Obama.Sadly, the podcast never happened: ESPN killed it, with a spokesman tellingDeadspin:It’s absolutely not an issue about any one candidate. Our position is that when they’re down to the final two candidates, we’ll look for options to interview each accordingly. Fans don’t expect political coverage on our air. We did Kerry and Bush on ESPN. Separate one-on-ones that were sports related.It was, as they say, a different time. Simmons would eventually be allowed to interview then-President Obamain 2012, but it is this election, in 2024, that is undoubtedly the podcast election. FromBloomberg:Former President Donald Trump said he’d consider entirely replacing income taxes with tariffs, conceded he had botched senior staff appointments, and teased a possible revelation about extraterrestrial life during a freewheeling three-hour podcast with comedian Joe Rogan on Friday. It was an unorthodox — and lengthy — conversation for a presidential candidate, underscoring the Republican nominee’s outreach to young male voters and quest for wave-making spectacle during the closing days of the presidential campaign.The podcast, recorded Friday during a visit to Austin, is the latest effort by Trump to broaden his electoral appeal beyond his fervent conservative base with polls showing him deadlocked with Democrat Kamala Harris…The conversation stretched long enough that Trump ended up hours late for a rally in swing-state Michigan, where hundreds of supporters trickled out of the venue as temperatures dropped while waiting for him to arrive. But Rogan, widely considered the most popular podcaster in the world — boasting 17.5 million subscribers on YouTube and 15.7 million on Spotify — offered a unique platform for the former president to reach not only a massive audience, but one full of the type of independent voters both campaigns have said could decide the election.I thoughtthe podcast was quite compellingthanks in part to the format; Trump himself seemed shocked it ran so long, andRogan said in a follow-up discussion:He’s got this ability to just keep going. This is what’s crazy: the podcast was three hours long. The guy didn’t pee before the podcast, he didn’t pee after the podcast. He just left…he just sat here and we talked and they were freaking out out there because he was two hours late for something he was doing in Michigan, and he didn’t give a fuck, he said “I know this is going to be bigger than that, let’s just keep going. We did three hours!It was indeed bigger: the YouTube video is up to 33 million views, and of course the episode — it being a podcast and all — is also available on RSS and on Spotify (where I listened to it). Now to be fair, YouTube counts a view when a user clicks play and watches for at least 30 seconds, i.e. 0.3% of this particular episode, but it seems certain that Trump reached a far larger audience than he eventually commanded in Michigan.The Voters Decide2015 might have been different. When Trump first started running for President, his rallies not only drew huge crowds but also drew huge ratings, thanks to the fact the cable news channels took to showing most of them. I dug into why in 2016’sThe Voters Decide, which took its name from the bookThe Party Decides:Step back to the world as it was: the one where newspapers (and TV stations, etc.) were gatekeepers thanks to their ownership of production and distribution. In this world any viable political campaign had to play nicely with those who ran the press in the hopes of gaining positive earned media, endorsements, etc. Just as important, though, was the need to buy advertising, as that was the only way to reach voters at scale. And advertising required lots of money, which meant donors. And then, once the actual election rolled around, a campaign needed an effective GOTV effort, which took not only money but also the sort of manpower that could only be rustled up by organizations like labor unions, churches, etc. It is all these disparate pieces: partisan media members, advertisers, donors, large associations, plus consultants and specialists to manage them that, along with traditional politicians, made up the “party” in The Party Decides.By 2016this gatekeeping function had disappeared thanks to the Internet; the channel that mattered was social media, which actually created a vacuum in terms of controlling the flow of political information:[There is] a curious dynamic in politics in particular: there is no one dominant force when it comes to the dispersal of political information, and that includes the parties described in the previous section. Remember, in a Facebook world, information suppliers are modularized and commoditized as most people get their news from their feed. This has two implications:All news sources are competing on an equal footing; those controlled or bought by a party are not inherently privileged.The likelihood any particular message will “break out” is based not on who is propagating said message but on how many users are receptive to hearing it. The power has shifted from the supply side to the demand side:This is a big problem for the parties as described inThe Party Decides. Remember, in Noel and company’s description party actors care more about their policy preferences than they do voter preferences, but in an aggregated world it is voters aka users who decide which issues get traction and which don’t. And, by extension, the most successful politicians in an aggregated world are not those who serve the party but rather those who tell voters what they most want to hear.That, as I noted, was Trump, and the media, eager for eyeballs, saw Trump as a massive moneymaker — and then he won.To say that the political climate and the media’s own view of itself has shifted over the last eight years is a dramatic understatement; see the brouhaha over the weekend over The Washington Post’s decision to not endorse a candidate this year. Part of that shift has been a markedly different approach to Trump’s rallies: they are rarely televised now, and the coverage that does happen is, it seems fair to say, decidedly oppositional.In other words, I may have somewhat overstated my case in 2016: the removal of the media’s gatekeeping function motivated TV networks in particular to give Trump all kinds of free air time for financial reasons, but that wasn’t going to happen again for political reasons. Trump still had the Internet — and this time, a social network in X whose owner is actively campaigning on his behalf — but his ability to broadcast was severely curtailed.The Podcast ElectionEnter podcasts: before Rogan Trump had already appeared on12 different podcasts, while Vice President Kamala Harris had appeared on six. What makes this meaningful is that over the past eight years these podcasts have accrued massive audiences of their own. In 2016 social media had created a vacuum; that vacuum has been filled by people like Joe Rogan who have a direct connection to their listeners.That takes me back to those incredible viewing numbers: it’s not just that presidential candidates have an alternative to the media; it’s that they actually have access to channels that broadcast to far greater numbers than the media can reach today. Part of this is the demise of media business models, particularly cable:Cable penetration will soon fall under 50%, which is around 50 million homes:Watching a rally on cable, though, requires you to be in a specific place at a specific time; podcasts have no such limitation — indeed, the YouTube views on the Rogan podcast continue to shoot up, two days after it aired. That, too, is a hallmark of the Internet: users don’t just get served what they want, they also get it when and where they want.Media shifts like this have happened before. In 1920 Warren Harding delivered the first presidential address over the radio; it was Franklin Roosevelt who truly mastered the medium, though, with his famous fireside chats. Then, a generation after that, the televised debates between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon helped carry the former to victory; the master of that medium was probably Ronald Reagan, a former actor.Television has had a good run since then, but while Obama pioneered the podcast appearance, it seems clear that Trump this cycle has cemented their place as the way most people will learn about candidates. And, honestly, this seems like a good thing: it’s hard to fake a three hour conversation, for better or for worse. I will also note that I myself see an increased appreciation for the medium: see last week’s Stratechery Interview, for example, or the other CEOs I have had a chance to talk to with increasing frequency.Of course that’s no free lunch from my perspective: one of the challenges of CEO interviews is that a lot of executives are in their position because they are disciplined and wary of speaking freely; that doesn’t make for a very entertaining podcast, which is why it’s great fun to talk to a character like Benioff. The reason I mention this is because of the effect this may end up having on presidential selection in the long run: a big reason the aforementioned televised debate helped Kennedy is because he was much more telegenic than Nixon. The currency of podcasts, on the other hand, is humor and story-telling and the ability to range widely across topics; say what you want about Trump, he is definitely funny and prone to long-winded story-telling!Of course Trump is one-of-a-kind; you could just as easily make the case that his real asset has always been his celebrity, which helps him garner attention in the first place. That certainly matters for getting started, and will continue to; I think, though, that the ability to hold one’s own on a podcast is, in the long run, going to be a greater selection effect for President than people might expect.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedExponent Podcast: The Backlash Has ArrivedDateFriday, November 11, 2016Podcast: Exponent Episode 082 — A Podcast About PodcastsDateSaturday, June 11, 2016The Future of PodcastingDateTuesday, June 7, 2016←An Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff about AI AbundanceMeta’s AI Abundance→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it, last week’sStratechery Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioffran on Friday instead of Thursday. Meanwhile, onThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed stablecoins andStripe’s acquisition of Bridge.On to the Update:Trump on RoganEarlier this month Dave Winermarked 30 years of bloggingand his creation of a medium that leveraged his earlier work developing RSS; in 2003 Winer extended RSS to include links to audio files, to deliver what we now call a podcast (the name would be coineda year laterin reference to the iPod). Bill Simmons was a relatively early adopter of the format, launching the B.S. Report in 2007; a year later he managed to land a shockingly high profile guest: presidential candidate Barack Obama.Sadly, the podcast never happened: ESPN killed it, with a spokesman tellingDeadspin:It’s absolutely not an issue about any one candidate. Our position is that when they’re down to the final two candidates, we’ll look for options to interview each accordingly. Fans don’t expect political coverage on our air. We did Kerry and Bush on ESPN. Separate one-on-ones that were sports related.It was, as they say, a different time. Simmons would eventually be allowed to interview then-President Obamain 2012, but it is this election, in 2024, that is undoubtedly the podcast election. FromBloomberg:Former President Donald Trump said he’d consider entirely replacing income taxes with tariffs, conceded he had botched senior staff appointments, and teased a possible revelation about extraterrestrial life during a freewheeling three-hour podcast with comedian Joe Rogan on Friday. It was an unorthodox — and lengthy — conversation for a presidential candidate, underscoring the Republican nominee’s outreach to young male voters and quest for wave-making spectacle during the closing days of the presidential campaign.The podcast, recorded Friday during a visit to Austin, is the latest effort by Trump to broaden his electoral appeal beyond his fervent conservative base with polls showing him deadlocked with Democrat Kamala Harris…The conversation stretched long enough that Trump ended up hours late for a rally in swing-state Michigan, where hundreds of supporters trickled out of the venue as temperatures dropped while waiting for him to arrive. But Rogan, widely considered the most popular podcaster in the world — boasting 17.5 million subscribers on YouTube and 15.7 million on Spotify — offered a unique platform for the former president to reach not only a massive audience, but one full of the type of independent voters both campaigns have said could decide the election.I thoughtthe podcast was quite compellingthanks in part to the format; Trump himself seemed shocked it ran so long, andRogan said in a follow-up discussion:He’s got this ability to just keep going. This is what’s crazy: the podcast was three hours long. The guy didn’t pee before the podcast, he didn’t pee after the podcast. He just left…he just sat here and we talked and they were freaking out out there because he was two hours late for something he was doing in Michigan, and he didn’t give a fuck, he said “I know this is going to be bigger than that, let’s just keep going. We did three hours!It was indeed bigger: the YouTube video is up to 33 million views, and of course the episode — it being a podcast and all — is also available on RSS and on Spotify (where I listened to it). Now to be fair, YouTube counts a view when a user clicks play and watches for at least 30 seconds, i.e. 0.3% of this particular episode, but it seems certain that Trump reached a far larger audience than he eventually commanded in Michigan.The Voters Decide2015 might have been different. When Trump first started running for President, his rallies not only drew huge crowds but also drew huge ratings, thanks to the fact the cable news channels took to showing most of them. I dug into why in 2016’sThe Voters Decide, which took its name from the bookThe Party Decides:Step back to the world as it was: the one where newspapers (and TV stations, etc.) were gatekeepers thanks to their ownership of production and distribution. In this world any viable political campaign had to play nicely with those who ran the press in the hopes of gaining positive earned media, endorsements, etc. Just as important, though, was the need to buy advertising, as that was the only way to reach voters at scale. And advertising required lots of money, which meant donors. And then, once the actual election rolled around, a campaign needed an effective GOTV effort, which took not only money but also the sort of manpower that could only be rustled up by organizations like labor unions, churches, etc. It is all these disparate pieces: partisan media members, advertisers, donors, large associations, plus consultants and specialists to manage them that, along with traditional politicians, made up the “party” in The Party Decides.By 2016this gatekeeping function had disappeared thanks to the Internet; the channel that mattered was social media, which actually created a vacuum in terms of controlling the flow of political information:[There is] a curious dynamic in politics in particular: there is no one dominant force when it comes to the dispersal of political information, and that includes the parties described in the previous section. Remember, in a Facebook world, information suppliers are modularized and commoditized as most people get their news from their feed. This has two implications:All news sources are competing on an equal footing; those controlled or bought by a party are not inherently privileged.The likelihood any particular message will “break out” is based not on who is propagating said message but on how many users are receptive to hearing it. The power has shifted from the supply side to the demand side:This is a big problem for the parties as described inThe Party Decides. Remember, in Noel and company’s description party actors care more about their policy preferences than they do voter preferences, but in an aggregated world it is voters aka users who decide which issues get traction and which don’t. And, by extension, the most successful politicians in an aggregated world are not those who serve the party but rather those who tell voters what they most want to hear.That, as I noted, was Trump, and the media, eager for eyeballs, saw Trump as a massive moneymaker — and then he won.To say that the political climate and the media’s own view of itself has shifted over the last eight years is a dramatic understatement; see the brouhaha over the weekend over The Washington Post’s decision to not endorse a candidate this year. Part of that shift has been a markedly different approach to Trump’s rallies: they are rarely televised now, and the coverage that does happen is, it seems fair to say, decidedly oppositional.In other words, I may have somewhat overstated my case in 2016: the removal of the media’s gatekeeping function motivated TV networks in particular to give Trump all kinds of free air time for financial reasons, but that wasn’t going to happen again for political reasons. Trump still had the Internet — and this time, a social network in X whose owner is actively campaigning on his behalf — but his ability to broadcast was severely curtailed.The Podcast ElectionEnter podcasts: before Rogan Trump had already appeared on12 different podcasts, while Vice President Kamala Harris had appeared on six. What makes this meaningful is that over the past eight years these podcasts have accrued massive audiences of their own. In 2016 social media had created a vacuum; that vacuum has been filled by people like Joe Rogan who have a direct connection to their listeners.That takes me back to those incredible viewing numbers: it’s not just that presidential candidates have an alternative to the media; it’s that they actually have access to channels that broadcast to far greater numbers than the media can reach today. Part of this is the demise of media business models, particularly cable:Cable penetration will soon fall under 50%, which is around 50 million homes:Watching a rally on cable, though, requires you to be in a specific place at a specific time; podcasts have no such limitation — indeed, the YouTube views on the Rogan podcast continue to shoot up, two days after it aired. That, too, is a hallmark of the Internet: users don’t just get served what they want, they also get it when and where they want.Media shifts like this have happened before. In 1920 Warren Harding delivered the first presidential address over the radio; it was Franklin Roosevelt who truly mastered the medium, though, with his famous fireside chats. Then, a generation after that, the televised debates between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon helped carry the former to victory; the master of that medium was probably Ronald Reagan, a former actor.Television has had a good run since then, but while Obama pioneered the podcast appearance, it seems clear that Trump this cycle has cemented their place as the way most people will learn about candidates. And, honestly, this seems like a good thing: it’s hard to fake a three hour conversation, for better or for worse. I will also note that I myself see an increased appreciation for the medium: see last week’s Stratechery Interview, for example, or the other CEOs I have had a chance to talk to with increasing frequency.Of course that’s no free lunch from my perspective: one of the challenges of CEO interviews is that a lot of executives are in their position because they are disciplined and wary of speaking freely; that doesn’t make for a very entertaining podcast, which is why it’s great fun to talk to a character like Benioff. The reason I mention this is because of the effect this may end up having on presidential selection in the long run: a big reason the aforementioned televised debate helped Kennedy is because he was much more telegenic than Nixon. The currency of podcasts, on the other hand, is humor and story-telling and the ability to range widely across topics; say what you want about Trump, he is definitely funny and prone to long-winded story-telling!Of course Trump is one-of-a-kind; you could just as easily make the case that his real asset has always been his celebrity, which helps him garner attention in the first place. That certainly matters for getting started, and will continue to; I think, though, that the ability to hold one’s own on a podcast is, in the long run, going to be a greater selection effect for President than people might expect.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email In case you missed it, last week’sStratechery Interview with Salesforce CEO Marc Benioffran on Friday instead of Thursday. Meanwhile, onThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, we discussed stablecoins andStripe’s acquisition of Bridge. Earlier this month Dave Winermarked 30 years of bloggingand his creation of a medium that leveraged his earlier work developing RSS; in 2003 Winer extended RSS to include links to audio files, to deliver what we now call a podcast (the name would be coineda year laterin reference to the iPod). Bill Simmons was a relatively early adopter of the format, launching the B.S. Report in 2007; a year later he managed to land a shockingly high profile guest: presidential candidate Barack Obama. It’s absolutely not an issue about any one candidate. Our position is that when they’re down to the final two candidates, we’ll look for options to interview each accordingly. Fans don’t expect political coverage on our air. We did Kerry and Bush on ESPN. Separate one-on-ones that were sports related. It was, as they say, a different time. Simmons would eventually be allowed to interview then-President Obamain 2012, but it is this election, in 2024, that is undoubtedly the podcast election. FromBloomberg: Former President Donald Trump said he’d consider entirely replacing income taxes with tariffs, conceded he had botched senior staff appointments, and teased a possible revelation about extraterrestrial life during a freewheeling three-hour podcast with comedian Joe Rogan on Friday. It was an unorthodox — and lengthy — conversation for a presidential candidate, underscoring the Republican nominee’s outreach to young male voters and quest for wave-making spectacle during the closing days of the presidential campaign. The podcast, recorded Friday during a visit to Austin, is the latest effort by Trump to broaden his electoral appeal beyond his fervent conservative base with polls showing him deadlocked with Democrat Kamala Harris…The conversation stretched long enough that Trump ended up hours late for a rally in swing-state Michigan, where hundreds of supporters trickled out of the venue as temperatures dropped while waiting for him to arrive. But Rogan, widely considered the most popular podcaster in the world — boasting 17.5 million subscribers on YouTube and 15.7 million on Spotify — offered a unique platform for the former president to reach not only a massive audience, but one full of the type of independent voters both campaigns have said could decide the election. He’s got this ability to just keep going. This is what’s crazy: the podcast was three hours long. The guy didn’t pee before the podcast, he didn’t pee after the podcast. He just left…he just sat here and we talked and they were freaking out out there because he was two hours late for something he was doing in Michigan, and he didn’t give a fuck, he said “I know this is going to be bigger than that, let’s just keep going. We did three hours! It was indeed bigger: the YouTube video is up to 33 million views, and of course the episode — it being a podcast and all — is also available on RSS and on Spotify (where I listened to it). Now to be fair, YouTube counts a view when a user clicks play and watches for at least 30 seconds, i.e. 0.3% of this particular episode, but it seems certain that Trump reached a far larger audience than he eventually commanded in Michigan. 2015 might have been different. When Trump first started running for President, his rallies not only drew huge crowds but also drew huge ratings, thanks to the fact the cable news channels took to showing most of them. I dug into why in 2016’sThe Voters Decide, which took its name from the bookThe Party Decides: Step back to the world as it was: the one where newspapers (and TV stations, etc.) were gatekeepers thanks to their ownership of production and distribution. In this world any viable political campaign had to play nicely with those who ran the press in the hopes of gaining positive earned media, endorsements, etc. Just as important, though, was the need to buy advertising, as that was the only way to reach voters at scale. And advertising required lots of money, which meant donors. And then, once the actual election rolled around, a campaign needed an effective GOTV effort, which took not only money but also the sort of manpower that could only be rustled up by organizations like labor unions, churches, etc. It is all these disparate pieces: partisan media members, advertisers, donors, large associations, plus consultants and specialists to manage them that, along with traditional politicians, made up the “party” in The Party Decides. By 2016this gatekeeping function had disappeared thanks to the Internet; the channel that mattered was social media, which actually created a vacuum in terms of controlling the flow of political information: [There is] a curious dynamic in politics in particular: there is no one dominant force when it comes to the dispersal of political information, and that includes the parties described in the previous section. Remember, in a Facebook world, information suppliers are modularized and commoditized as most people get their news from their feed. This has two implications: This is a big problem for the parties as described inThe Party Decides. Remember, in Noel and company’s description party actors care more about their policy preferences than they do voter preferences, but in an aggregated world it is voters aka users who decide which issues get traction and which don’t. And, by extension, the most successful politicians in an aggregated world are not those who serve the party but rather those who tell voters what they most want to hear. To say that the political climate and the media’s own view of itself has shifted over the last eight years is a dramatic understatement; see the brouhaha over the weekend over The Washington Post’s decision to not endorse a candidate this year. Part of that shift has been a markedly different approach to Trump’s rallies: they are rarely televised now, and the coverage that does happen is, it seems fair to say, decidedly oppositional. In other words, I may have somewhat overstated my case in 2016: the removal of the media’s gatekeeping function motivated TV networks in particular to give Trump all kinds of free air time for financial reasons, but that wasn’t going to happen again for political reasons. Trump still had the Internet — and this time, a social network in X whose owner is actively campaigning on his behalf — but his ability to broadcast was severely curtailed. Enter podcasts: before Rogan Trump had already appeared on12 different podcasts, while Vice President Kamala Harris had appeared on six. What makes this meaningful is that over the past eight years these podcasts have accrued massive audiences of their own. In 2016 social media had created a vacuum; that vacuum has been filled by people like Joe Rogan who have a direct connection to their listeners. That takes me back to those incredible viewing numbers: it’s not just that presidential candidates have an alternative to the media; it’s that they actually have access to channels that broadcast to far greater numbers than the media can reach today. Part of this is the demise of media business models, particularly cable: Watching a rally on cable, though, requires you to be in a specific place at a specific time; podcasts have no such limitation — indeed, the YouTube views on the Rogan podcast continue to shoot up, two days after it aired. That, too, is a hallmark of the Internet: users don’t just get served what they want, they also get it when and where they want. Media shifts like this have happened before. In 1920 Warren Harding delivered the first presidential address over the radio; it was Franklin Roosevelt who truly mastered the medium, though, with his famous fireside chats. Then, a generation after that, the televised debates between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon helped carry the former to victory; the master of that medium was probably Ronald Reagan, a former actor. Television has had a good run since then, but while Obama pioneered the podcast appearance, it seems clear that Trump this cycle has cemented their place as the way most people will learn about candidates. And, honestly, this seems like a good thing: it’s hard to fake a three hour conversation, for better or for worse. I will also note that I myself see an increased appreciation for the medium: see last week’s Stratechery Interview, for example, or the other CEOs I have had a chance to talk to with increasing frequency. Of course that’s no free lunch from my perspective: one of the challenges of CEO interviews is that a lot of executives are in their position because they are disciplined and wary of speaking freely; that doesn’t make for a very entertaining podcast, which is why it’s great fun to talk to a character like Benioff. The reason I mention this is because of the effect this may end up having on presidential selection in the long run: a big reason the aforementioned televised debate helped Kennedy is because he was much more telegenic than Nixon. The currency of podcasts, on the other hand, is humor and story-telling and the ability to range widely across topics; say what you want about Trump, he is definitely funny and prone to long-winded story-telling! Of course Trump is one-of-a-kind; you could just as easily make the case that his real asset has always been his celebrity, which helps him garner attention in the first place. That certainly matters for getting started, and will continue to; I think, though, that the ability to hold one’s own on a podcast is, in the long run, going to be a greater selection effect for President than people might expect. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025