# [PODCAST] OpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI's Strategic Positioning, Apple's Worsening AI Problem

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/openai-acquires-io-openais-strategic-positioning-apples-worsening-ai-problem/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.oVlqJbkoodLJ6MFJy4ENC3MFEpHoRUBJsP-svAPRFY2k0AFZdUkdtDhkwC-CL--2KKd9qb4z7_XNOTx--NqSpPm9atE7UpyG1B388ryOSx6ugnlS3WrL-RBqUftS10mLV68RkolcwSJnFSgodooRA7SeLlqijrIlx4AWKtjPFt_RKWitYMj5Zvm2iutTQ8VhlfQB3J5WFRo9KfZedyspfBVE7r2hKy_cZnPJzMsG-BFevr_bbidY6qSKNk1JfWpnwv768wNdRvIIQDiBgmm-kWE1I9WapouUpQlmGoUL5kSLy2BQudj5lGZsn4aDwNroaHcZV7qLfFZXmqrJf-8cag
**Atlas ID**: 229572
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.884390

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirOpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI’s Strategic Positioning, Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThursday, May 22, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss the Commerce Department’s guidance on Huawei Ascend chips and the AI deal with Gulf states.This week’s Stratechery Interview was with Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, and was published last Monday. This coming Monday, meanwhile, is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:OpenAI Acquires ioFromBloomberg:OpenAI will acquire the AI device startup co-founded by Apple Inc. veteran Jony Ive in a nearly $6.5 billion all-stock deal, joining forces with the legendary designer to make a push into hardware. The purchase — the largest in OpenAI’s history — will provide the company with a dedicated unit for developing AI-powered devices. Acquiring the secretive startup, named io, also will secure the services of Ive and other former Apple designers who were behind iconic products such as the iPhone…For the British-born designer, the move marks a high-profile return to a consumer technology industry he helped pioneer. Working for years alongside Steve Jobs, he crafted the look and feel of the modern smartphone, in addition to the iPod, MacBook, iPad and Apple Watch. He left Apple in 2019. When Ive departed Apple, CEO Tim Cook pitched the idea that the two parties would remain collaborators. But they never released a product together after Ive’s exit. And now the designer is embarking on a new collaboration with Altman, who he called a “rare visionary.”Ive was once described by Jobs as his “spiritual partner,” and his new stint designing rival technology products could be seen as a bad omen for Apple — a company already struggling to compete in AI. In the interview, Altman said Jobs would be “damn proud” of Ive’s latest move.OpenAI releaseda nine minute and 21 second videoof Ive and Altman complimenting each other, expressing love for San Francisco, and announcing the new partnership. It’s a bit much, to be honest, although beautifully shot and produced (I assume it was put together by ‘LoveFrom,’ Ive’s not-included-in-the-deal-but-not-accepting-new-clients design agency); I think the key segment from Ive’s perspective is this:Sam Altman:We had both a very strong shared vision. We maybe didn’t know exactly where we were going to go, but the direction of the force vector felt clear. Then this deeply shared sense of values about what technology should be, when technology has been really good, when it’s gone wrong.Jony Ive:I mean, that was in a way one of the basis, I think, one of the reasons Sam and I clicked was, despite our wonderfully different journeys to this point, our motivations and values are completely the same. In my experience, if you’re trying to have a sense of where you are going to end up, you shouldn’t look at the technology, you should look at the people who are making the decisions, and you should look at what drives, motivates and look at values.Ive expressed what drives and motivates him earlier this month inthis excellent interview with Patrick Collison(which John Gruber and Idiscussed on Dithering):You’re talking a lot about the purpose of design and the effect that design has on the recipient, on the user, on the consumer, whatever the case is. There’s widespread concern and speculation about the effects of smartphones and the Internet, doesn’t necessarily accord just with the smartphone, but on some of these products on attention spans, and whether it has some adverse effect on kids or teens or who knows, maybe all of us, maybe the adults as well. There’s questions over with AI, whether it changes how education works, and cheating, and school. All of these technologies that we create have this potential double-sidedness to them, and so I guess as somebody who clearly takes seriously and thinks seriously about the full effects, how do you think about the possible harms?Jony Ive:Yeah, I think [there is] probably not anything that I can be more preoccupied or bothered by than what you just described. I think when you’re innovating of course there will be unintended consequences. You hope that the majority will be pleasant surprises. Certain products that I’ve been very, very involved with, I think there were some unintended consequences that were far from pleasant. My issue is that even though there was no intention, I think there still needs to be responsibility, and that weighs on me, as you know heavily.It seems pretty clear that Ive is talking about the iPhone, which is to say it sure seems like he is motivated not simply to build an AI device, but to actually diminish the iPhone’s dominance in user’s lives, or even, in the long run, kill it completely. This tracks with theWall Street Journal’s reporting on their plans:OpenAI Chief Executive Officer Sam Altman and Ive’s design firm, LoveFrom, have been working on a new device that will move consumers beyond screens, according to people familiar with the matter. They have been collaborating for two years on a closely guarded project, considering options including headphones and other devices with cameras, the people said.That’s admittedly pretty thin gruel, but it’s in-line with other rumors, and, more importantly from my perspective, tracks with Ive’s expressed sentiment. And, it should be noted, this is a sentiment that Altman has expressed as well. Here’s an example from before OpenAI even existed:people sacrifice actual happiness and actual accomplishment for short-term dopamine hits by posting and chasing likes/RTs on FB/Twitter— Sam Altman (@sama)November 25, 2013Here’s another a year after OpenAI was founded:Digital addiction is going to be one of the great mental health crises of our time.— Sam Altman (@sama)December 3, 2016Altman wroteon his blogin 2017:I believe attention hacking is going to be the sugar epidemic of this generation. I can feel the changes in my own life — I can still wistfully remember when I had an attention span. My friends’ young children don’t even know that’s something they should miss. I am angry and unhappy more often, but I channel it into productive change less often, instead chasing the dual dopamine hits of likes and outrage.It’s always challenging with Altman to know when or if he is talking his book, as it were, but there is a record of long-running sentiments that might convince Ive that their “motivations and values are completely the same”; at the same time, there are certainly other motivations as well. Ive, for his part, just became a lot richer, at least on paper; Altman may or may not have diluted the non-profit’s share of OpenAI by making a big purchase with stock. He also is sliding into the role occupied byhis childhood idol, one Steve Jobs.OpenAI’s Strategic PositioningThe larger question is what this means for OpenAI. On one hand, the angle here is obvious, and fortuitously articulated by mejust yesterday:It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closer to what I envision for XR than Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.What makes ChatGPT so remarkable — andOpenAI the Accidental Consumer Tech Company— is that, like Google two-and-a-half decades ago, they have reached nearly a billion users almost entirely through word-of-mouth (the only distribution deal OpenAI has done is with Apple — more on this in a moment). This is exceptionally rare, and my longstanding opinion is that the obvious way to capitalize on this position is toroll out advertising.It is worth noting, however, that one challenge in trying to win in advertising is that you are, in the end, fighting on Google’s turf, i.e. the same Google that demonstrated its incredible model and infrastructure prowess at (well this is awkward, and surely couldn’t have been intentional, or was it?) I/O conferencejust yesterday. Yes, there are questions about Google’s product chops, and I already think that OpenAI is the best in AI at product, and they just addedJony Ive, and yes, OpenAI has the advantage of building an advertising business from scratch, giving them more degrees of freedom than Google, which has to worry about cannibalization and disruption, but Google is also moving AI into Search, and the infrastructure the company has built around advertising will take years and years to match. You can say the same thing about Meta.And speaking of Meta, think about how CEO Mark Zuckerberg has framed the company’s approach to AR and VR; this is Zuckerberg in a2022 Stratechery Interviewabout their partnership with Microsoft:But taking a step back, I think in addition to the strategic alignment, I also think that there’s a very deep philosophical alignment on the direction that we want the next generation of computing to go. My brief take on the history here is that in every major computing platform there’s been an open ecosystem that’s focused on partnership and a more closed and integrated ecosystem. So with PC, Windows was the leading open ecosystem and, of course, Mac was the leading closed integrated one. On phones, Android is the leading open one and iOS is the leading closed one.I think one of the things that’s interesting in the history is that I don’t think it’s predetermined whether the open ecosystem or the closed one ends up being the primary ecosystem. I actually think it quite well could be the case that a partnership-driven and open ecosystem ends up being the primary one that the majority of people and the majority of the value is created on for the next computing platform. So I think our goal in our alignment here is not just about specific use cases, but I think we share a vision of wanting to not only help build the open Metaverse and the open version of the next set of platforms, but also make sure that the open ecosystem wins in this next round of computing.Implicit in Zuckerberg’s answer is the assumption that the company they are competing with in the long run is Apple, the “closed” option. Another way to frame the contrast, however, is between modular (Windows, Android) and integrated (Mac, iPhone). The integrated option — the Apple option — is monetized first-and-foremost through device sales; the modular option is modular in part because the underlying motivation of the operating system is to maximize reach, which in the case of Google means increasing the number of surfaces on which to control search and serve ads.These framings are, in reality, a bit too limiting to fully articulate the various strategic puts and takes; Google, for example, is deeply integrating Android with Google AI in the cloud, while continuing to lean on 3rd parties to actually build the hardware. Indeed, one of my chief critiques ofApple’s approach to AIis that, by trying to do AI themselves, they are trying to compete with Google on Google’s turf, when in fact the best way to leverage their devices is to give free on-device inference to developers (whichmight be announced at WWDC). Still, Google is, as Google does,focusing on being on as many devices as possible.To that end, while Zuckerberg assumes that Apple will be there in AR and VR, should Altman assume they will be there in AI? To put it another way, if you’re going to take on one tech giant directly, and you’re an AI company, isn’t Apple a much more attractive target than Google? And, if you think that way, should your focus be on building a horizontal service that runs everywhere, or on building a fully integrated offering that monetizes the high end through an experience that integrates hardware and software? And, if you want to build the best possible integrated hardware and software experience, the team —iois a veritable all-star collection of Apple talent that extends far beyond Ive — that built the last one is a reasonable place to start!Now you can certainly make the case that a team that has already succeeded and grown accustomed to Apple’s supply chain expertise and bargaining power isn’t the best fit for building a new hardware business from scratch; then again, hardware is so difficult that you can make the exact opposite case: you really shouldn’t start anywhere else. And, I would hasten to add, I certainly don’t expect ChatGPT to someday be exclusive toiodevices; the economics of a cloud business simply wouldn’t support that, and I have no trouble believing that Altman thinks he can take on the entire tech industry. Still, if you’re only ever going to be an app in the Android ecosystem, it’s not unreasonable to think the best route to winning is to build a superior device.Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThe easier path is the one OpenAI started down last year with the aforementioned Apple deal, where Apple makes the devices and OpenAI makes the AI used on those devices. That’s why OpenAI was willing to make ChatGPT a part of Siri for free, even with the potentially huge costs that supporting non-ChatGPT subscribers might have entailed; I wroteafter WWDC 2024:This sounds like a play to acquire users and mindshare, with the potential of upselling those users to a subscription, i.e. the exact same model that OpenAI has on their website and apps. Moreover, if this partnership entails Apple not paying, it also explains why OpenAI is the only option to start: Google, for example, probably wanted to be paid for Gemini, or Anthropic for Claude, and I can imagine (1) Apple holding the line on not paying, particularly if (2) OpenAI is making an aggressive move to build out its consumer business and be a durable brand and winner in the consumer space. In short, my updated current thinking is that both Apple and OpenAI are making the bet that very large language models are becoming increasingly commoditized, which means that Apple doesn’t have to pay to get access to one, and OpenAI sees scale and consumer mindshare as the best route to a sustainable business.Altman had been talking to Ive long before this deal; I wrote about OpenAI making a device inSeptember 2023and highlighted the danger of being “just an app”:There are obviously many steps before a potential hardware product, including actually agreeing to build one. And there is, of course, the fact that Apple and Google already make devices everyone carries, with the latter in particular investing heavily in its own AI capabilities; betting on the hardware in market winning the hardware opportunity in AI is the safest bet.That may not be a reason for either OpenAI or Meta to abandon their efforts, though: waging a hardware battle against Google and Apple would be difficult, but it might be even worse to be “just an app” if the full realization of AI’s capabilities depend on fully removing human friction from the process.The Apple-OpenAI deal doesnotdo that; indeed, Apple actuallyaddsfriction by warning users that they are about to interact with an outside service, and that’s even before you remember that Apple’s number one priority will always be the phone itself — the very object Ive, at least, wants to diminish. You can see why this partnership might not be enough for OpenAI’s aspirations.Apple, meanwhile, is watching its strategic position in AI collapse, perhaps because they never took the technology seriously. That’s the takeaway froma blockbuster report from Mark Gurman in Bloomberg Businessweek, who suggests Apple’s AI issues are both older and worse than they have seemed. Basically:Apple’s head of software engineering didn’t believe in AIApple’s head of AI was skeptical about LLMs and chatbotsApple’s former CFO refused to commit sufficient funds for GPUsApple’s commitment to privacy limited the company to purchased datasetsApple’s AI team is understaffed (and the relative talent level of an AI staffer still at Apple is uncomfortable to speculate about, but, given the opportunities elsewhere, relevant)So what should Apple do now? My baseline advice has been:Make Apple’s on-device models available to developers as an API without restriction.Make Apple’s cloud inference available to developers as an API at cost.Allow Siri to be replaced by other AIs (perhaps for subscribers to those AIs, who would revenue share with Apple).This remains the most attractive option in terms of economics: Apple avoids the capex investment necessary to stay on the cutting edge, even as its customers have the best possible access to said cutting edge. This news does, however, show the cracks in that approach: the most obvious candidate to replace Siri is ChatGPT, who just declared they are a competitor! As for the other candidates:Google is a competitor, although pragmatic enough to make something work, as they did with Search — at least until it was ruled illegal! That’s a bit of an obstacle.Meta is a future competitor, even if they too arestrategically symbiotic. It’s hard to see a deal happen here given all of the vitriol between the two companies, but it actually makes a lot of sense for both sides.Anthropic is compelling as a partner, but almost certainly don’t have the capacity for Apple. Plus, Amazon has a say.All of the open-source Chinese models are probably out, even if they would be ideal from Apple’s perspective.It’s also worth noting that relying on 3rd-party AI is a blatant violation of the so-calledTim Cook doctrine, which states that “We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products we make” (I say “so-called” because the doctrine also states that “we don’t settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we’re wrong and the courage to change”, both of which don’t appear to apply to AI and developer relations respectively). More than the products Apple makes, however, are the products they might want to make in the future, which may exist on the other side ofthe generative AI bridge.Given all of these issues, and the total heads-in-the-sand failure of Apple’s AI response depicted by Bloomberg, it does seem increasingly clear that the capex-lite opportunity is slipping away, and Apple is going to need to consider spending serious money. The most obvious way to do so is first on an acquisition, and then on the infrastructure to support the team they acquire.Again, though, the options aren’t great!Anthropic is pursuing AGI, which is extremely expensive and not aligned with Apple’s goals, and Amazonhas first dibs.SSI is pursuing AGI, and is also very expensive. In this case, however, the lack of a product is probably a feature from Apple’s perspective. Does Ilya Sutskever want to work for Apple though?Mistral makes a lot of sense, particularly their focus on efficiency (and open source aligns well with Apple’s goals), but the E.U. generally and France in particular see them as their champion, and may not let an acquisition by an American tech company — who they are very mad at for regulatory intransigence — happen.XAi is by far the funniest option thanks to the X/Twitter acquisition, but Apple is desperate! Does Elon Musk want to sell, however?There’s one other possibility: build Apple Intelligence on Google Cloud and the Gemini APIs (as opposed to Gemini itself). Yes, you’ll have to pay on an ongoing basis, but I would imagine that Google would be willing to cut one heck of a deal; a customer of Apple’s scale would single-handedly justify a huge amount of their investment without cannibalizing Search. Apple, meanwhile, would have access to the best models overnight, and be able to focus their time and attention on productizing Google’s technology.Regardless, the biggest lesson of the last few years is that the best time for the company to take AI seriously was years ago; the next best (and dramatically more expensive) time is now. The third best time, whenever that comes in the future, may be too late.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyDateFriday, May 23, 2025Exponent Podcast: Apple, Google, and PrivacyDateFriday, June 5, 2015Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025←Google I/O, The Search Funnel, Product Possibilities2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet Economy→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air OpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI’s Strategic Positioning, Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThursday, May 22, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss the Commerce Department’s guidance on Huawei Ascend chips and the AI deal with Gulf states.This week’s Stratechery Interview was with Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, and was published last Monday. This coming Monday, meanwhile, is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:OpenAI Acquires ioFromBloomberg:OpenAI will acquire the AI device startup co-founded by Apple Inc. veteran Jony Ive in a nearly $6.5 billion all-stock deal, joining forces with the legendary designer to make a push into hardware. The purchase — the largest in OpenAI’s history — will provide the company with a dedicated unit for developing AI-powered devices. Acquiring the secretive startup, named io, also will secure the services of Ive and other former Apple designers who were behind iconic products such as the iPhone…For the British-born designer, the move marks a high-profile return to a consumer technology industry he helped pioneer. Working for years alongside Steve Jobs, he crafted the look and feel of the modern smartphone, in addition to the iPod, MacBook, iPad and Apple Watch. He left Apple in 2019. When Ive departed Apple, CEO Tim Cook pitched the idea that the two parties would remain collaborators. But they never released a product together after Ive’s exit. And now the designer is embarking on a new collaboration with Altman, who he called a “rare visionary.”Ive was once described by Jobs as his “spiritual partner,” and his new stint designing rival technology products could be seen as a bad omen for Apple — a company already struggling to compete in AI. In the interview, Altman said Jobs would be “damn proud” of Ive’s latest move.OpenAI releaseda nine minute and 21 second videoof Ive and Altman complimenting each other, expressing love for San Francisco, and announcing the new partnership. It’s a bit much, to be honest, although beautifully shot and produced (I assume it was put together by ‘LoveFrom,’ Ive’s not-included-in-the-deal-but-not-accepting-new-clients design agency); I think the key segment from Ive’s perspective is this:Sam Altman:We had both a very strong shared vision. We maybe didn’t know exactly where we were going to go, but the direction of the force vector felt clear. Then this deeply shared sense of values about what technology should be, when technology has been really good, when it’s gone wrong.Jony Ive:I mean, that was in a way one of the basis, I think, one of the reasons Sam and I clicked was, despite our wonderfully different journeys to this point, our motivations and values are completely the same. In my experience, if you’re trying to have a sense of where you are going to end up, you shouldn’t look at the technology, you should look at the people who are making the decisions, and you should look at what drives, motivates and look at values.Ive expressed what drives and motivates him earlier this month inthis excellent interview with Patrick Collison(which John Gruber and Idiscussed on Dithering):You’re talking a lot about the purpose of design and the effect that design has on the recipient, on the user, on the consumer, whatever the case is. There’s widespread concern and speculation about the effects of smartphones and the Internet, doesn’t necessarily accord just with the smartphone, but on some of these products on attention spans, and whether it has some adverse effect on kids or teens or who knows, maybe all of us, maybe the adults as well. There’s questions over with AI, whether it changes how education works, and cheating, and school. All of these technologies that we create have this potential double-sidedness to them, and so I guess as somebody who clearly takes seriously and thinks seriously about the full effects, how do you think about the possible harms?Jony Ive:Yeah, I think [there is] probably not anything that I can be more preoccupied or bothered by than what you just described. I think when you’re innovating of course there will be unintended consequences. You hope that the majority will be pleasant surprises. Certain products that I’ve been very, very involved with, I think there were some unintended consequences that were far from pleasant. My issue is that even though there was no intention, I think there still needs to be responsibility, and that weighs on me, as you know heavily.It seems pretty clear that Ive is talking about the iPhone, which is to say it sure seems like he is motivated not simply to build an AI device, but to actually diminish the iPhone’s dominance in user’s lives, or even, in the long run, kill it completely. This tracks with theWall Street Journal’s reporting on their plans:OpenAI Chief Executive Officer Sam Altman and Ive’s design firm, LoveFrom, have been working on a new device that will move consumers beyond screens, according to people familiar with the matter. They have been collaborating for two years on a closely guarded project, considering options including headphones and other devices with cameras, the people said.That’s admittedly pretty thin gruel, but it’s in-line with other rumors, and, more importantly from my perspective, tracks with Ive’s expressed sentiment. And, it should be noted, this is a sentiment that Altman has expressed as well. Here’s an example from before OpenAI even existed:people sacrifice actual happiness and actual accomplishment for short-term dopamine hits by posting and chasing likes/RTs on FB/Twitter— Sam Altman (@sama)November 25, 2013Here’s another a year after OpenAI was founded:Digital addiction is going to be one of the great mental health crises of our time.— Sam Altman (@sama)December 3, 2016Altman wroteon his blogin 2017:I believe attention hacking is going to be the sugar epidemic of this generation. I can feel the changes in my own life — I can still wistfully remember when I had an attention span. My friends’ young children don’t even know that’s something they should miss. I am angry and unhappy more often, but I channel it into productive change less often, instead chasing the dual dopamine hits of likes and outrage.It’s always challenging with Altman to know when or if he is talking his book, as it were, but there is a record of long-running sentiments that might convince Ive that their “motivations and values are completely the same”; at the same time, there are certainly other motivations as well. Ive, for his part, just became a lot richer, at least on paper; Altman may or may not have diluted the non-profit’s share of OpenAI by making a big purchase with stock. He also is sliding into the role occupied byhis childhood idol, one Steve Jobs.OpenAI’s Strategic PositioningThe larger question is what this means for OpenAI. On one hand, the angle here is obvious, and fortuitously articulated by mejust yesterday:It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closer to what I envision for XR than Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.What makes ChatGPT so remarkable — andOpenAI the Accidental Consumer Tech Company— is that, like Google two-and-a-half decades ago, they have reached nearly a billion users almost entirely through word-of-mouth (the only distribution deal OpenAI has done is with Apple — more on this in a moment). This is exceptionally rare, and my longstanding opinion is that the obvious way to capitalize on this position is toroll out advertising.It is worth noting, however, that one challenge in trying to win in advertising is that you are, in the end, fighting on Google’s turf, i.e. the same Google that demonstrated its incredible model and infrastructure prowess at (well this is awkward, and surely couldn’t have been intentional, or was it?) I/O conferencejust yesterday. Yes, there are questions about Google’s product chops, and I already think that OpenAI is the best in AI at product, and they just addedJony Ive, and yes, OpenAI has the advantage of building an advertising business from scratch, giving them more degrees of freedom than Google, which has to worry about cannibalization and disruption, but Google is also moving AI into Search, and the infrastructure the company has built around advertising will take years and years to match. You can say the same thing about Meta.And speaking of Meta, think about how CEO Mark Zuckerberg has framed the company’s approach to AR and VR; this is Zuckerberg in a2022 Stratechery Interviewabout their partnership with Microsoft:But taking a step back, I think in addition to the strategic alignment, I also think that there’s a very deep philosophical alignment on the direction that we want the next generation of computing to go. My brief take on the history here is that in every major computing platform there’s been an open ecosystem that’s focused on partnership and a more closed and integrated ecosystem. So with PC, Windows was the leading open ecosystem and, of course, Mac was the leading closed integrated one. On phones, Android is the leading open one and iOS is the leading closed one.I think one of the things that’s interesting in the history is that I don’t think it’s predetermined whether the open ecosystem or the closed one ends up being the primary ecosystem. I actually think it quite well could be the case that a partnership-driven and open ecosystem ends up being the primary one that the majority of people and the majority of the value is created on for the next computing platform. So I think our goal in our alignment here is not just about specific use cases, but I think we share a vision of wanting to not only help build the open Metaverse and the open version of the next set of platforms, but also make sure that the open ecosystem wins in this next round of computing.Implicit in Zuckerberg’s answer is the assumption that the company they are competing with in the long run is Apple, the “closed” option. Another way to frame the contrast, however, is between modular (Windows, Android) and integrated (Mac, iPhone). The integrated option — the Apple option — is monetized first-and-foremost through device sales; the modular option is modular in part because the underlying motivation of the operating system is to maximize reach, which in the case of Google means increasing the number of surfaces on which to control search and serve ads.These framings are, in reality, a bit too limiting to fully articulate the various strategic puts and takes; Google, for example, is deeply integrating Android with Google AI in the cloud, while continuing to lean on 3rd parties to actually build the hardware. Indeed, one of my chief critiques ofApple’s approach to AIis that, by trying to do AI themselves, they are trying to compete with Google on Google’s turf, when in fact the best way to leverage their devices is to give free on-device inference to developers (whichmight be announced at WWDC). Still, Google is, as Google does,focusing on being on as many devices as possible.To that end, while Zuckerberg assumes that Apple will be there in AR and VR, should Altman assume they will be there in AI? To put it another way, if you’re going to take on one tech giant directly, and you’re an AI company, isn’t Apple a much more attractive target than Google? And, if you think that way, should your focus be on building a horizontal service that runs everywhere, or on building a fully integrated offering that monetizes the high end through an experience that integrates hardware and software? And, if you want to build the best possible integrated hardware and software experience, the team —iois a veritable all-star collection of Apple talent that extends far beyond Ive — that built the last one is a reasonable place to start!Now you can certainly make the case that a team that has already succeeded and grown accustomed to Apple’s supply chain expertise and bargaining power isn’t the best fit for building a new hardware business from scratch; then again, hardware is so difficult that you can make the exact opposite case: you really shouldn’t start anywhere else. And, I would hasten to add, I certainly don’t expect ChatGPT to someday be exclusive toiodevices; the economics of a cloud business simply wouldn’t support that, and I have no trouble believing that Altman thinks he can take on the entire tech industry. Still, if you’re only ever going to be an app in the Android ecosystem, it’s not unreasonable to think the best route to winning is to build a superior device.Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThe easier path is the one OpenAI started down last year with the aforementioned Apple deal, where Apple makes the devices and OpenAI makes the AI used on those devices. That’s why OpenAI was willing to make ChatGPT a part of Siri for free, even with the potentially huge costs that supporting non-ChatGPT subscribers might have entailed; I wroteafter WWDC 2024:This sounds like a play to acquire users and mindshare, with the potential of upselling those users to a subscription, i.e. the exact same model that OpenAI has on their website and apps. Moreover, if this partnership entails Apple not paying, it also explains why OpenAI is the only option to start: Google, for example, probably wanted to be paid for Gemini, or Anthropic for Claude, and I can imagine (1) Apple holding the line on not paying, particularly if (2) OpenAI is making an aggressive move to build out its consumer business and be a durable brand and winner in the consumer space. In short, my updated current thinking is that both Apple and OpenAI are making the bet that very large language models are becoming increasingly commoditized, which means that Apple doesn’t have to pay to get access to one, and OpenAI sees scale and consumer mindshare as the best route to a sustainable business.Altman had been talking to Ive long before this deal; I wrote about OpenAI making a device inSeptember 2023and highlighted the danger of being “just an app”:There are obviously many steps before a potential hardware product, including actually agreeing to build one. And there is, of course, the fact that Apple and Google already make devices everyone carries, with the latter in particular investing heavily in its own AI capabilities; betting on the hardware in market winning the hardware opportunity in AI is the safest bet.That may not be a reason for either OpenAI or Meta to abandon their efforts, though: waging a hardware battle against Google and Apple would be difficult, but it might be even worse to be “just an app” if the full realization of AI’s capabilities depend on fully removing human friction from the process.The Apple-OpenAI deal doesnotdo that; indeed, Apple actuallyaddsfriction by warning users that they are about to interact with an outside service, and that’s even before you remember that Apple’s number one priority will always be the phone itself — the very object Ive, at least, wants to diminish. You can see why this partnership might not be enough for OpenAI’s aspirations.Apple, meanwhile, is watching its strategic position in AI collapse, perhaps because they never took the technology seriously. That’s the takeaway froma blockbuster report from Mark Gurman in Bloomberg Businessweek, who suggests Apple’s AI issues are both older and worse than they have seemed. Basically:Apple’s head of software engineering didn’t believe in AIApple’s head of AI was skeptical about LLMs and chatbotsApple’s former CFO refused to commit sufficient funds for GPUsApple’s commitment to privacy limited the company to purchased datasetsApple’s AI team is understaffed (and the relative talent level of an AI staffer still at Apple is uncomfortable to speculate about, but, given the opportunities elsewhere, relevant)So what should Apple do now? My baseline advice has been:Make Apple’s on-device models available to developers as an API without restriction.Make Apple’s cloud inference available to developers as an API at cost.Allow Siri to be replaced by other AIs (perhaps for subscribers to those AIs, who would revenue share with Apple).This remains the most attractive option in terms of economics: Apple avoids the capex investment necessary to stay on the cutting edge, even as its customers have the best possible access to said cutting edge. This news does, however, show the cracks in that approach: the most obvious candidate to replace Siri is ChatGPT, who just declared they are a competitor! As for the other candidates:Google is a competitor, although pragmatic enough to make something work, as they did with Search — at least until it was ruled illegal! That’s a bit of an obstacle.Meta is a future competitor, even if they too arestrategically symbiotic. It’s hard to see a deal happen here given all of the vitriol between the two companies, but it actually makes a lot of sense for both sides.Anthropic is compelling as a partner, but almost certainly don’t have the capacity for Apple. Plus, Amazon has a say.All of the open-source Chinese models are probably out, even if they would be ideal from Apple’s perspective.It’s also worth noting that relying on 3rd-party AI is a blatant violation of the so-calledTim Cook doctrine, which states that “We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products we make” (I say “so-called” because the doctrine also states that “we don’t settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we’re wrong and the courage to change”, both of which don’t appear to apply to AI and developer relations respectively). More than the products Apple makes, however, are the products they might want to make in the future, which may exist on the other side ofthe generative AI bridge.Given all of these issues, and the total heads-in-the-sand failure of Apple’s AI response depicted by Bloomberg, it does seem increasingly clear that the capex-lite opportunity is slipping away, and Apple is going to need to consider spending serious money. The most obvious way to do so is first on an acquisition, and then on the infrastructure to support the team they acquire.Again, though, the options aren’t great!Anthropic is pursuing AGI, which is extremely expensive and not aligned with Apple’s goals, and Amazonhas first dibs.SSI is pursuing AGI, and is also very expensive. In this case, however, the lack of a product is probably a feature from Apple’s perspective. Does Ilya Sutskever want to work for Apple though?Mistral makes a lot of sense, particularly their focus on efficiency (and open source aligns well with Apple’s goals), but the E.U. generally and France in particular see them as their champion, and may not let an acquisition by an American tech company — who they are very mad at for regulatory intransigence — happen.XAi is by far the funniest option thanks to the X/Twitter acquisition, but Apple is desperate! Does Elon Musk want to sell, however?There’s one other possibility: build Apple Intelligence on Google Cloud and the Gemini APIs (as opposed to Gemini itself). Yes, you’ll have to pay on an ongoing basis, but I would imagine that Google would be willing to cut one heck of a deal; a customer of Apple’s scale would single-handedly justify a huge amount of their investment without cannibalizing Search. Apple, meanwhile, would have access to the best models overnight, and be able to focus their time and attention on productizing Google’s technology.Regardless, the biggest lesson of the last few years is that the best time for the company to take AI seriously was years ago; the next best (and dramatically more expensive) time is now. The third best time, whenever that comes in the future, may be too late.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyDateFriday, May 23, 2025Exponent Podcast: Apple, Google, and PrivacyDateFriday, June 5, 2015Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025←Google I/O, The Search Funnel, Product Possibilities2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet Economy→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All OpenAI Acquires io, OpenAI’s Strategic Positioning, Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThursday, May 22, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss the Commerce Department’s guidance on Huawei Ascend chips and the AI deal with Gulf states.This week’s Stratechery Interview was with Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, and was published last Monday. This coming Monday, meanwhile, is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:OpenAI Acquires ioFromBloomberg:OpenAI will acquire the AI device startup co-founded by Apple Inc. veteran Jony Ive in a nearly $6.5 billion all-stock deal, joining forces with the legendary designer to make a push into hardware. The purchase — the largest in OpenAI’s history — will provide the company with a dedicated unit for developing AI-powered devices. Acquiring the secretive startup, named io, also will secure the services of Ive and other former Apple designers who were behind iconic products such as the iPhone…For the British-born designer, the move marks a high-profile return to a consumer technology industry he helped pioneer. Working for years alongside Steve Jobs, he crafted the look and feel of the modern smartphone, in addition to the iPod, MacBook, iPad and Apple Watch. He left Apple in 2019. When Ive departed Apple, CEO Tim Cook pitched the idea that the two parties would remain collaborators. But they never released a product together after Ive’s exit. And now the designer is embarking on a new collaboration with Altman, who he called a “rare visionary.”Ive was once described by Jobs as his “spiritual partner,” and his new stint designing rival technology products could be seen as a bad omen for Apple — a company already struggling to compete in AI. In the interview, Altman said Jobs would be “damn proud” of Ive’s latest move.OpenAI releaseda nine minute and 21 second videoof Ive and Altman complimenting each other, expressing love for San Francisco, and announcing the new partnership. It’s a bit much, to be honest, although beautifully shot and produced (I assume it was put together by ‘LoveFrom,’ Ive’s not-included-in-the-deal-but-not-accepting-new-clients design agency); I think the key segment from Ive’s perspective is this:Sam Altman:We had both a very strong shared vision. We maybe didn’t know exactly where we were going to go, but the direction of the force vector felt clear. Then this deeply shared sense of values about what technology should be, when technology has been really good, when it’s gone wrong.Jony Ive:I mean, that was in a way one of the basis, I think, one of the reasons Sam and I clicked was, despite our wonderfully different journeys to this point, our motivations and values are completely the same. In my experience, if you’re trying to have a sense of where you are going to end up, you shouldn’t look at the technology, you should look at the people who are making the decisions, and you should look at what drives, motivates and look at values.Ive expressed what drives and motivates him earlier this month inthis excellent interview with Patrick Collison(which John Gruber and Idiscussed on Dithering):You’re talking a lot about the purpose of design and the effect that design has on the recipient, on the user, on the consumer, whatever the case is. There’s widespread concern and speculation about the effects of smartphones and the Internet, doesn’t necessarily accord just with the smartphone, but on some of these products on attention spans, and whether it has some adverse effect on kids or teens or who knows, maybe all of us, maybe the adults as well. There’s questions over with AI, whether it changes how education works, and cheating, and school. All of these technologies that we create have this potential double-sidedness to them, and so I guess as somebody who clearly takes seriously and thinks seriously about the full effects, how do you think about the possible harms?Jony Ive:Yeah, I think [there is] probably not anything that I can be more preoccupied or bothered by than what you just described. I think when you’re innovating of course there will be unintended consequences. You hope that the majority will be pleasant surprises. Certain products that I’ve been very, very involved with, I think there were some unintended consequences that were far from pleasant. My issue is that even though there was no intention, I think there still needs to be responsibility, and that weighs on me, as you know heavily.It seems pretty clear that Ive is talking about the iPhone, which is to say it sure seems like he is motivated not simply to build an AI device, but to actually diminish the iPhone’s dominance in user’s lives, or even, in the long run, kill it completely. This tracks with theWall Street Journal’s reporting on their plans:OpenAI Chief Executive Officer Sam Altman and Ive’s design firm, LoveFrom, have been working on a new device that will move consumers beyond screens, according to people familiar with the matter. They have been collaborating for two years on a closely guarded project, considering options including headphones and other devices with cameras, the people said.That’s admittedly pretty thin gruel, but it’s in-line with other rumors, and, more importantly from my perspective, tracks with Ive’s expressed sentiment. And, it should be noted, this is a sentiment that Altman has expressed as well. Here’s an example from before OpenAI even existed:people sacrifice actual happiness and actual accomplishment for short-term dopamine hits by posting and chasing likes/RTs on FB/Twitter— Sam Altman (@sama)November 25, 2013Here’s another a year after OpenAI was founded:Digital addiction is going to be one of the great mental health crises of our time.— Sam Altman (@sama)December 3, 2016Altman wroteon his blogin 2017:I believe attention hacking is going to be the sugar epidemic of this generation. I can feel the changes in my own life — I can still wistfully remember when I had an attention span. My friends’ young children don’t even know that’s something they should miss. I am angry and unhappy more often, but I channel it into productive change less often, instead chasing the dual dopamine hits of likes and outrage.It’s always challenging with Altman to know when or if he is talking his book, as it were, but there is a record of long-running sentiments that might convince Ive that their “motivations and values are completely the same”; at the same time, there are certainly other motivations as well. Ive, for his part, just became a lot richer, at least on paper; Altman may or may not have diluted the non-profit’s share of OpenAI by making a big purchase with stock. He also is sliding into the role occupied byhis childhood idol, one Steve Jobs.OpenAI’s Strategic PositioningThe larger question is what this means for OpenAI. On one hand, the angle here is obvious, and fortuitously articulated by mejust yesterday:It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closer to what I envision for XR than Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.What makes ChatGPT so remarkable — andOpenAI the Accidental Consumer Tech Company— is that, like Google two-and-a-half decades ago, they have reached nearly a billion users almost entirely through word-of-mouth (the only distribution deal OpenAI has done is with Apple — more on this in a moment). This is exceptionally rare, and my longstanding opinion is that the obvious way to capitalize on this position is toroll out advertising.It is worth noting, however, that one challenge in trying to win in advertising is that you are, in the end, fighting on Google’s turf, i.e. the same Google that demonstrated its incredible model and infrastructure prowess at (well this is awkward, and surely couldn’t have been intentional, or was it?) I/O conferencejust yesterday. Yes, there are questions about Google’s product chops, and I already think that OpenAI is the best in AI at product, and they just addedJony Ive, and yes, OpenAI has the advantage of building an advertising business from scratch, giving them more degrees of freedom than Google, which has to worry about cannibalization and disruption, but Google is also moving AI into Search, and the infrastructure the company has built around advertising will take years and years to match. You can say the same thing about Meta.And speaking of Meta, think about how CEO Mark Zuckerberg has framed the company’s approach to AR and VR; this is Zuckerberg in a2022 Stratechery Interviewabout their partnership with Microsoft:But taking a step back, I think in addition to the strategic alignment, I also think that there’s a very deep philosophical alignment on the direction that we want the next generation of computing to go. My brief take on the history here is that in every major computing platform there’s been an open ecosystem that’s focused on partnership and a more closed and integrated ecosystem. So with PC, Windows was the leading open ecosystem and, of course, Mac was the leading closed integrated one. On phones, Android is the leading open one and iOS is the leading closed one.I think one of the things that’s interesting in the history is that I don’t think it’s predetermined whether the open ecosystem or the closed one ends up being the primary ecosystem. I actually think it quite well could be the case that a partnership-driven and open ecosystem ends up being the primary one that the majority of people and the majority of the value is created on for the next computing platform. So I think our goal in our alignment here is not just about specific use cases, but I think we share a vision of wanting to not only help build the open Metaverse and the open version of the next set of platforms, but also make sure that the open ecosystem wins in this next round of computing.Implicit in Zuckerberg’s answer is the assumption that the company they are competing with in the long run is Apple, the “closed” option. Another way to frame the contrast, however, is between modular (Windows, Android) and integrated (Mac, iPhone). The integrated option — the Apple option — is monetized first-and-foremost through device sales; the modular option is modular in part because the underlying motivation of the operating system is to maximize reach, which in the case of Google means increasing the number of surfaces on which to control search and serve ads.These framings are, in reality, a bit too limiting to fully articulate the various strategic puts and takes; Google, for example, is deeply integrating Android with Google AI in the cloud, while continuing to lean on 3rd parties to actually build the hardware. Indeed, one of my chief critiques ofApple’s approach to AIis that, by trying to do AI themselves, they are trying to compete with Google on Google’s turf, when in fact the best way to leverage their devices is to give free on-device inference to developers (whichmight be announced at WWDC). Still, Google is, as Google does,focusing on being on as many devices as possible.To that end, while Zuckerberg assumes that Apple will be there in AR and VR, should Altman assume they will be there in AI? To put it another way, if you’re going to take on one tech giant directly, and you’re an AI company, isn’t Apple a much more attractive target than Google? And, if you think that way, should your focus be on building a horizontal service that runs everywhere, or on building a fully integrated offering that monetizes the high end through an experience that integrates hardware and software? And, if you want to build the best possible integrated hardware and software experience, the team —iois a veritable all-star collection of Apple talent that extends far beyond Ive — that built the last one is a reasonable place to start!Now you can certainly make the case that a team that has already succeeded and grown accustomed to Apple’s supply chain expertise and bargaining power isn’t the best fit for building a new hardware business from scratch; then again, hardware is so difficult that you can make the exact opposite case: you really shouldn’t start anywhere else. And, I would hasten to add, I certainly don’t expect ChatGPT to someday be exclusive toiodevices; the economics of a cloud business simply wouldn’t support that, and I have no trouble believing that Altman thinks he can take on the entire tech industry. Still, if you’re only ever going to be an app in the Android ecosystem, it’s not unreasonable to think the best route to winning is to build a superior device.Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThe easier path is the one OpenAI started down last year with the aforementioned Apple deal, where Apple makes the devices and OpenAI makes the AI used on those devices. That’s why OpenAI was willing to make ChatGPT a part of Siri for free, even with the potentially huge costs that supporting non-ChatGPT subscribers might have entailed; I wroteafter WWDC 2024:This sounds like a play to acquire users and mindshare, with the potential of upselling those users to a subscription, i.e. the exact same model that OpenAI has on their website and apps. Moreover, if this partnership entails Apple not paying, it also explains why OpenAI is the only option to start: Google, for example, probably wanted to be paid for Gemini, or Anthropic for Claude, and I can imagine (1) Apple holding the line on not paying, particularly if (2) OpenAI is making an aggressive move to build out its consumer business and be a durable brand and winner in the consumer space. In short, my updated current thinking is that both Apple and OpenAI are making the bet that very large language models are becoming increasingly commoditized, which means that Apple doesn’t have to pay to get access to one, and OpenAI sees scale and consumer mindshare as the best route to a sustainable business.Altman had been talking to Ive long before this deal; I wrote about OpenAI making a device inSeptember 2023and highlighted the danger of being “just an app”:There are obviously many steps before a potential hardware product, including actually agreeing to build one. And there is, of course, the fact that Apple and Google already make devices everyone carries, with the latter in particular investing heavily in its own AI capabilities; betting on the hardware in market winning the hardware opportunity in AI is the safest bet.That may not be a reason for either OpenAI or Meta to abandon their efforts, though: waging a hardware battle against Google and Apple would be difficult, but it might be even worse to be “just an app” if the full realization of AI’s capabilities depend on fully removing human friction from the process.The Apple-OpenAI deal doesnotdo that; indeed, Apple actuallyaddsfriction by warning users that they are about to interact with an outside service, and that’s even before you remember that Apple’s number one priority will always be the phone itself — the very object Ive, at least, wants to diminish. You can see why this partnership might not be enough for OpenAI’s aspirations.Apple, meanwhile, is watching its strategic position in AI collapse, perhaps because they never took the technology seriously. That’s the takeaway froma blockbuster report from Mark Gurman in Bloomberg Businessweek, who suggests Apple’s AI issues are both older and worse than they have seemed. Basically:Apple’s head of software engineering didn’t believe in AIApple’s head of AI was skeptical about LLMs and chatbotsApple’s former CFO refused to commit sufficient funds for GPUsApple’s commitment to privacy limited the company to purchased datasetsApple’s AI team is understaffed (and the relative talent level of an AI staffer still at Apple is uncomfortable to speculate about, but, given the opportunities elsewhere, relevant)So what should Apple do now? My baseline advice has been:Make Apple’s on-device models available to developers as an API without restriction.Make Apple’s cloud inference available to developers as an API at cost.Allow Siri to be replaced by other AIs (perhaps for subscribers to those AIs, who would revenue share with Apple).This remains the most attractive option in terms of economics: Apple avoids the capex investment necessary to stay on the cutting edge, even as its customers have the best possible access to said cutting edge. This news does, however, show the cracks in that approach: the most obvious candidate to replace Siri is ChatGPT, who just declared they are a competitor! As for the other candidates:Google is a competitor, although pragmatic enough to make something work, as they did with Search — at least until it was ruled illegal! That’s a bit of an obstacle.Meta is a future competitor, even if they too arestrategically symbiotic. It’s hard to see a deal happen here given all of the vitriol between the two companies, but it actually makes a lot of sense for both sides.Anthropic is compelling as a partner, but almost certainly don’t have the capacity for Apple. Plus, Amazon has a say.All of the open-source Chinese models are probably out, even if they would be ideal from Apple’s perspective.It’s also worth noting that relying on 3rd-party AI is a blatant violation of the so-calledTim Cook doctrine, which states that “We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products we make” (I say “so-called” because the doctrine also states that “we don’t settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we’re wrong and the courage to change”, both of which don’t appear to apply to AI and developer relations respectively). More than the products Apple makes, however, are the products they might want to make in the future, which may exist on the other side ofthe generative AI bridge.Given all of these issues, and the total heads-in-the-sand failure of Apple’s AI response depicted by Bloomberg, it does seem increasingly clear that the capex-lite opportunity is slipping away, and Apple is going to need to consider spending serious money. The most obvious way to do so is first on an acquisition, and then on the infrastructure to support the team they acquire.Again, though, the options aren’t great!Anthropic is pursuing AGI, which is extremely expensive and not aligned with Apple’s goals, and Amazonhas first dibs.SSI is pursuing AGI, and is also very expensive. In this case, however, the lack of a product is probably a feature from Apple’s perspective. Does Ilya Sutskever want to work for Apple though?Mistral makes a lot of sense, particularly their focus on efficiency (and open source aligns well with Apple’s goals), but the E.U. generally and France in particular see them as their champion, and may not let an acquisition by an American tech company — who they are very mad at for regulatory intransigence — happen.XAi is by far the funniest option thanks to the X/Twitter acquisition, but Apple is desperate! Does Elon Musk want to sell, however?There’s one other possibility: build Apple Intelligence on Google Cloud and the Gemini APIs (as opposed to Gemini itself). Yes, you’ll have to pay on an ongoing basis, but I would imagine that Google would be willing to cut one heck of a deal; a customer of Apple’s scale would single-handedly justify a huge amount of their investment without cannibalizing Search. Apple, meanwhile, would have access to the best models overnight, and be able to focus their time and attention on productizing Google’s technology.Regardless, the biggest lesson of the last few years is that the best time for the company to take AI seriously was years ago; the next best (and dramatically more expensive) time is now. The third best time, whenever that comes in the future, may be too late.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet EconomyDateFriday, May 23, 2025Exponent Podcast: Apple, Google, and PrivacyDateFriday, June 5, 2015Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025←Google I/O, The Search Funnel, Product Possibilities2025.21: The Upheaval Coming for the Internet Economy→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s Sharp China, Andrew and Bill discuss the Commerce Department’s guidance on Huawei Ascend chips and the AI deal with Gulf states.This week’s Stratechery Interview was with Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, and was published last Monday. This coming Monday, meanwhile, is the Memorial Day holiday in the U.S. There will be no Update.On to the Update:OpenAI Acquires ioFromBloomberg:OpenAI will acquire the AI device startup co-founded by Apple Inc. veteran Jony Ive in a nearly $6.5 billion all-stock deal, joining forces with the legendary designer to make a push into hardware. The purchase — the largest in OpenAI’s history — will provide the company with a dedicated unit for developing AI-powered devices. Acquiring the secretive startup, named io, also will secure the services of Ive and other former Apple designers who were behind iconic products such as the iPhone…For the British-born designer, the move marks a high-profile return to a consumer technology industry he helped pioneer. Working for years alongside Steve Jobs, he crafted the look and feel of the modern smartphone, in addition to the iPod, MacBook, iPad and Apple Watch. He left Apple in 2019. When Ive departed Apple, CEO Tim Cook pitched the idea that the two parties would remain collaborators. But they never released a product together after Ive’s exit. And now the designer is embarking on a new collaboration with Altman, who he called a “rare visionary.”Ive was once described by Jobs as his “spiritual partner,” and his new stint designing rival technology products could be seen as a bad omen for Apple — a company already struggling to compete in AI. In the interview, Altman said Jobs would be “damn proud” of Ive’s latest move.OpenAI releaseda nine minute and 21 second videoof Ive and Altman complimenting each other, expressing love for San Francisco, and announcing the new partnership. It’s a bit much, to be honest, although beautifully shot and produced (I assume it was put together by ‘LoveFrom,’ Ive’s not-included-in-the-deal-but-not-accepting-new-clients design agency); I think the key segment from Ive’s perspective is this:Sam Altman:We had both a very strong shared vision. We maybe didn’t know exactly where we were going to go, but the direction of the force vector felt clear. Then this deeply shared sense of values about what technology should be, when technology has been really good, when it’s gone wrong.Jony Ive:I mean, that was in a way one of the basis, I think, one of the reasons Sam and I clicked was, despite our wonderfully different journeys to this point, our motivations and values are completely the same. In my experience, if you’re trying to have a sense of where you are going to end up, you shouldn’t look at the technology, you should look at the people who are making the decisions, and you should look at what drives, motivates and look at values.Ive expressed what drives and motivates him earlier this month inthis excellent interview with Patrick Collison(which John Gruber and Idiscussed on Dithering):You’re talking a lot about the purpose of design and the effect that design has on the recipient, on the user, on the consumer, whatever the case is. There’s widespread concern and speculation about the effects of smartphones and the Internet, doesn’t necessarily accord just with the smartphone, but on some of these products on attention spans, and whether it has some adverse effect on kids or teens or who knows, maybe all of us, maybe the adults as well. There’s questions over with AI, whether it changes how education works, and cheating, and school. All of these technologies that we create have this potential double-sidedness to them, and so I guess as somebody who clearly takes seriously and thinks seriously about the full effects, how do you think about the possible harms?Jony Ive:Yeah, I think [there is] probably not anything that I can be more preoccupied or bothered by than what you just described. I think when you’re innovating of course there will be unintended consequences. You hope that the majority will be pleasant surprises. Certain products that I’ve been very, very involved with, I think there were some unintended consequences that were far from pleasant. My issue is that even though there was no intention, I think there still needs to be responsibility, and that weighs on me, as you know heavily.It seems pretty clear that Ive is talking about the iPhone, which is to say it sure seems like he is motivated not simply to build an AI device, but to actually diminish the iPhone’s dominance in user’s lives, or even, in the long run, kill it completely. This tracks with theWall Street Journal’s reporting on their plans:OpenAI Chief Executive Officer Sam Altman and Ive’s design firm, LoveFrom, have been working on a new device that will move consumers beyond screens, according to people familiar with the matter. They have been collaborating for two years on a closely guarded project, considering options including headphones and other devices with cameras, the people said.That’s admittedly pretty thin gruel, but it’s in-line with other rumors, and, more importantly from my perspective, tracks with Ive’s expressed sentiment. And, it should be noted, this is a sentiment that Altman has expressed as well. Here’s an example from before OpenAI even existed:people sacrifice actual happiness and actual accomplishment for short-term dopamine hits by posting and chasing likes/RTs on FB/Twitter— Sam Altman (@sama)November 25, 2013Here’s another a year after OpenAI was founded:Digital addiction is going to be one of the great mental health crises of our time.— Sam Altman (@sama)December 3, 2016Altman wroteon his blogin 2017:I believe attention hacking is going to be the sugar epidemic of this generation. I can feel the changes in my own life — I can still wistfully remember when I had an attention span. My friends’ young children don’t even know that’s something they should miss. I am angry and unhappy more often, but I channel it into productive change less often, instead chasing the dual dopamine hits of likes and outrage.It’s always challenging with Altman to know when or if he is talking his book, as it were, but there is a record of long-running sentiments that might convince Ive that their “motivations and values are completely the same”; at the same time, there are certainly other motivations as well. Ive, for his part, just became a lot richer, at least on paper; Altman may or may not have diluted the non-profit’s share of OpenAI by making a big purchase with stock. He also is sliding into the role occupied byhis childhood idol, one Steve Jobs.OpenAI’s Strategic PositioningThe larger question is what this means for OpenAI. On one hand, the angle here is obvious, and fortuitously articulated by mejust yesterday:It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closer to what I envision for XR than Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever.What makes ChatGPT so remarkable — andOpenAI the Accidental Consumer Tech Company— is that, like Google two-and-a-half decades ago, they have reached nearly a billion users almost entirely through word-of-mouth (the only distribution deal OpenAI has done is with Apple — more on this in a moment). This is exceptionally rare, and my longstanding opinion is that the obvious way to capitalize on this position is toroll out advertising.It is worth noting, however, that one challenge in trying to win in advertising is that you are, in the end, fighting on Google’s turf, i.e. the same Google that demonstrated its incredible model and infrastructure prowess at (well this is awkward, and surely couldn’t have been intentional, or was it?) I/O conferencejust yesterday. Yes, there are questions about Google’s product chops, and I already think that OpenAI is the best in AI at product, and they just addedJony Ive, and yes, OpenAI has the advantage of building an advertising business from scratch, giving them more degrees of freedom than Google, which has to worry about cannibalization and disruption, but Google is also moving AI into Search, and the infrastructure the company has built around advertising will take years and years to match. You can say the same thing about Meta.And speaking of Meta, think about how CEO Mark Zuckerberg has framed the company’s approach to AR and VR; this is Zuckerberg in a2022 Stratechery Interviewabout their partnership with Microsoft:But taking a step back, I think in addition to the strategic alignment, I also think that there’s a very deep philosophical alignment on the direction that we want the next generation of computing to go. My brief take on the history here is that in every major computing platform there’s been an open ecosystem that’s focused on partnership and a more closed and integrated ecosystem. So with PC, Windows was the leading open ecosystem and, of course, Mac was the leading closed integrated one. On phones, Android is the leading open one and iOS is the leading closed one.I think one of the things that’s interesting in the history is that I don’t think it’s predetermined whether the open ecosystem or the closed one ends up being the primary ecosystem. I actually think it quite well could be the case that a partnership-driven and open ecosystem ends up being the primary one that the majority of people and the majority of the value is created on for the next computing platform. So I think our goal in our alignment here is not just about specific use cases, but I think we share a vision of wanting to not only help build the open Metaverse and the open version of the next set of platforms, but also make sure that the open ecosystem wins in this next round of computing.Implicit in Zuckerberg’s answer is the assumption that the company they are competing with in the long run is Apple, the “closed” option. Another way to frame the contrast, however, is between modular (Windows, Android) and integrated (Mac, iPhone). The integrated option — the Apple option — is monetized first-and-foremost through device sales; the modular option is modular in part because the underlying motivation of the operating system is to maximize reach, which in the case of Google means increasing the number of surfaces on which to control search and serve ads.These framings are, in reality, a bit too limiting to fully articulate the various strategic puts and takes; Google, for example, is deeply integrating Android with Google AI in the cloud, while continuing to lean on 3rd parties to actually build the hardware. Indeed, one of my chief critiques ofApple’s approach to AIis that, by trying to do AI themselves, they are trying to compete with Google on Google’s turf, when in fact the best way to leverage their devices is to give free on-device inference to developers (whichmight be announced at WWDC). Still, Google is, as Google does,focusing on being on as many devices as possible.To that end, while Zuckerberg assumes that Apple will be there in AR and VR, should Altman assume they will be there in AI? To put it another way, if you’re going to take on one tech giant directly, and you’re an AI company, isn’t Apple a much more attractive target than Google? And, if you think that way, should your focus be on building a horizontal service that runs everywhere, or on building a fully integrated offering that monetizes the high end through an experience that integrates hardware and software? And, if you want to build the best possible integrated hardware and software experience, the team —iois a veritable all-star collection of Apple talent that extends far beyond Ive — that built the last one is a reasonable place to start!Now you can certainly make the case that a team that has already succeeded and grown accustomed to Apple’s supply chain expertise and bargaining power isn’t the best fit for building a new hardware business from scratch; then again, hardware is so difficult that you can make the exact opposite case: you really shouldn’t start anywhere else. And, I would hasten to add, I certainly don’t expect ChatGPT to someday be exclusive toiodevices; the economics of a cloud business simply wouldn’t support that, and I have no trouble believing that Altman thinks he can take on the entire tech industry. Still, if you’re only ever going to be an app in the Android ecosystem, it’s not unreasonable to think the best route to winning is to build a superior device.Apple’s Worsening AI ProblemThe easier path is the one OpenAI started down last year with the aforementioned Apple deal, where Apple makes the devices and OpenAI makes the AI used on those devices. That’s why OpenAI was willing to make ChatGPT a part of Siri for free, even with the potentially huge costs that supporting non-ChatGPT subscribers might have entailed; I wroteafter WWDC 2024:This sounds like a play to acquire users and mindshare, with the potential of upselling those users to a subscription, i.e. the exact same model that OpenAI has on their website and apps. Moreover, if this partnership entails Apple not paying, it also explains why OpenAI is the only option to start: Google, for example, probably wanted to be paid for Gemini, or Anthropic for Claude, and I can imagine (1) Apple holding the line on not paying, particularly if (2) OpenAI is making an aggressive move to build out its consumer business and be a durable brand and winner in the consumer space. In short, my updated current thinking is that both Apple and OpenAI are making the bet that very large language models are becoming increasingly commoditized, which means that Apple doesn’t have to pay to get access to one, and OpenAI sees scale and consumer mindshare as the best route to a sustainable business.Altman had been talking to Ive long before this deal; I wrote about OpenAI making a device inSeptember 2023and highlighted the danger of being “just an app”:There are obviously many steps before a potential hardware product, including actually agreeing to build one. And there is, of course, the fact that Apple and Google already make devices everyone carries, with the latter in particular investing heavily in its own AI capabilities; betting on the hardware in market winning the hardware opportunity in AI is the safest bet.That may not be a reason for either OpenAI or Meta to abandon their efforts, though: waging a hardware battle against Google and Apple would be difficult, but it might be even worse to be “just an app” if the full realization of AI’s capabilities depend on fully removing human friction from the process.The Apple-OpenAI deal doesnotdo that; indeed, Apple actuallyaddsfriction by warning users that they are about to interact with an outside service, and that’s even before you remember that Apple’s number one priority will always be the phone itself — the very object Ive, at least, wants to diminish. You can see why this partnership might not be enough for OpenAI’s aspirations.Apple, meanwhile, is watching its strategic position in AI collapse, perhaps because they never took the technology seriously. That’s the takeaway froma blockbuster report from Mark Gurman in Bloomberg Businessweek, who suggests Apple’s AI issues are both older and worse than they have seemed. Basically:Apple’s head of software engineering didn’t believe in AIApple’s head of AI was skeptical about LLMs and chatbotsApple’s former CFO refused to commit sufficient funds for GPUsApple’s commitment to privacy limited the company to purchased datasetsApple’s AI team is understaffed (and the relative talent level of an AI staffer still at Apple is uncomfortable to speculate about, but, given the opportunities elsewhere, relevant)So what should Apple do now? My baseline advice has been:Make Apple’s on-device models available to developers as an API without restriction.Make Apple’s cloud inference available to developers as an API at cost.Allow Siri to be replaced by other AIs (perhaps for subscribers to those AIs, who would revenue share with Apple).This remains the most attractive option in terms of economics: Apple avoids the capex investment necessary to stay on the cutting edge, even as its customers have the best possible access to said cutting edge. This news does, however, show the cracks in that approach: the most obvious candidate to replace Siri is ChatGPT, who just declared they are a competitor! As for the other candidates:Google is a competitor, although pragmatic enough to make something work, as they did with Search — at least until it was ruled illegal! That’s a bit of an obstacle.Meta is a future competitor, even if they too arestrategically symbiotic. It’s hard to see a deal happen here given all of the vitriol between the two companies, but it actually makes a lot of sense for both sides.Anthropic is compelling as a partner, but almost certainly don’t have the capacity for Apple. Plus, Amazon has a say.All of the open-source Chinese models are probably out, even if they would be ideal from Apple’s perspective.It’s also worth noting that relying on 3rd-party AI is a blatant violation of the so-calledTim Cook doctrine, which states that “We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products we make” (I say “so-called” because the doctrine also states that “we don’t settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we’re wrong and the courage to change”, both of which don’t appear to apply to AI and developer relations respectively). More than the products Apple makes, however, are the products they might want to make in the future, which may exist on the other side ofthe generative AI bridge.Given all of these issues, and the total heads-in-the-sand failure of Apple’s AI response depicted by Bloomberg, it does seem increasingly clear that the capex-lite opportunity is slipping away, and Apple is going to need to consider spending serious money. The most obvious way to do so is first on an acquisition, and then on the infrastructure to support the team they acquire.Again, though, the options aren’t great!Anthropic is pursuing AGI, which is extremely expensive and not aligned with Apple’s goals, and Amazonhas first dibs.SSI is pursuing AGI, and is also very expensive. In this case, however, the lack of a product is probably a feature from Apple’s perspective. Does Ilya Sutskever want to work for Apple though?Mistral makes a lot of sense, particularly their focus on efficiency (and open source aligns well with Apple’s goals), but the E.U. generally and France in particular see them as their champion, and may not let an acquisition by an American tech company — who they are very mad at for regulatory intransigence — happen.XAi is by far the funniest option thanks to the X/Twitter acquisition, but Apple is desperate! Does Elon Musk want to sell, however?There’s one other possibility: build Apple Intelligence on Google Cloud and the Gemini APIs (as opposed to Gemini itself). Yes, you’ll have to pay on an ongoing basis, but I would imagine that Google would be willing to cut one heck of a deal; a customer of Apple’s scale would single-handedly justify a huge amount of their investment without cannibalizing Search. Apple, meanwhile, would have access to the best models overnight, and be able to focus their time and attention on productizing Google’s technology.Regardless, the biggest lesson of the last few years is that the best time for the company to take AI seriously was years ago; the next best (and dramatically more expensive) time is now. The third best time, whenever that comes in the future, may be too late.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email OpenAI will acquire the AI device startup co-founded by Apple Inc. veteran Jony Ive in a nearly $6.5 billion all-stock deal, joining forces with the legendary designer to make a push into hardware. The purchase — the largest in OpenAI’s history — will provide the company with a dedicated unit for developing AI-powered devices. Acquiring the secretive startup, named io, also will secure the services of Ive and other former Apple designers who were behind iconic products such as the iPhone… For the British-born designer, the move marks a high-profile return to a consumer technology industry he helped pioneer. Working for years alongside Steve Jobs, he crafted the look and feel of the modern smartphone, in addition to the iPod, MacBook, iPad and Apple Watch. He left Apple in 2019. When Ive departed Apple, CEO Tim Cook pitched the idea that the two parties would remain collaborators. But they never released a product together after Ive’s exit. And now the designer is embarking on a new collaboration with Altman, who he called a “rare visionary.” Ive was once described by Jobs as his “spiritual partner,” and his new stint designing rival technology products could be seen as a bad omen for Apple — a company already struggling to compete in AI. In the interview, Altman said Jobs would be “damn proud” of Ive’s latest move. OpenAI releaseda nine minute and 21 second videoof Ive and Altman complimenting each other, expressing love for San Francisco, and announcing the new partnership. It’s a bit much, to be honest, although beautifully shot and produced (I assume it was put together by ‘LoveFrom,’ Ive’s not-included-in-the-deal-but-not-accepting-new-clients design agency); I think the key segment from Ive’s perspective is this: Sam Altman:We had both a very strong shared vision. We maybe didn’t know exactly where we were going to go, but the direction of the force vector felt clear. Then this deeply shared sense of values about what technology should be, when technology has been really good, when it’s gone wrong. Jony Ive:I mean, that was in a way one of the basis, I think, one of the reasons Sam and I clicked was, despite our wonderfully different journeys to this point, our motivations and values are completely the same. In my experience, if you’re trying to have a sense of where you are going to end up, you shouldn’t look at the technology, you should look at the people who are making the decisions, and you should look at what drives, motivates and look at values. You’re talking a lot about the purpose of design and the effect that design has on the recipient, on the user, on the consumer, whatever the case is. There’s widespread concern and speculation about the effects of smartphones and the Internet, doesn’t necessarily accord just with the smartphone, but on some of these products on attention spans, and whether it has some adverse effect on kids or teens or who knows, maybe all of us, maybe the adults as well. There’s questions over with AI, whether it changes how education works, and cheating, and school. All of these technologies that we create have this potential double-sidedness to them, and so I guess as somebody who clearly takes seriously and thinks seriously about the full effects, how do you think about the possible harms? Jony Ive:Yeah, I think [there is] probably not anything that I can be more preoccupied or bothered by than what you just described. I think when you’re innovating of course there will be unintended consequences. You hope that the majority will be pleasant surprises. Certain products that I’ve been very, very involved with, I think there were some unintended consequences that were far from pleasant. My issue is that even though there was no intention, I think there still needs to be responsibility, and that weighs on me, as you know heavily. It seems pretty clear that Ive is talking about the iPhone, which is to say it sure seems like he is motivated not simply to build an AI device, but to actually diminish the iPhone’s dominance in user’s lives, or even, in the long run, kill it completely. This tracks with theWall Street Journal’s reporting on their plans: OpenAI Chief Executive Officer Sam Altman and Ive’s design firm, LoveFrom, have been working on a new device that will move consumers beyond screens, according to people familiar with the matter. They have been collaborating for two years on a closely guarded project, considering options including headphones and other devices with cameras, the people said. That’s admittedly pretty thin gruel, but it’s in-line with other rumors, and, more importantly from my perspective, tracks with Ive’s expressed sentiment. And, it should be noted, this is a sentiment that Altman has expressed as well. Here’s an example from before OpenAI even existed: I believe attention hacking is going to be the sugar epidemic of this generation. I can feel the changes in my own life — I can still wistfully remember when I had an attention span. My friends’ young children don’t even know that’s something they should miss. I am angry and unhappy more often, but I channel it into productive change less often, instead chasing the dual dopamine hits of likes and outrage. It’s always challenging with Altman to know when or if he is talking his book, as it were, but there is a record of long-running sentiments that might convince Ive that their “motivations and values are completely the same”; at the same time, there are certainly other motivations as well. Ive, for his part, just became a lot richer, at least on paper; Altman may or may not have diluted the non-profit’s share of OpenAI by making a big purchase with stock. He also is sliding into the role occupied byhis childhood idol, one Steve Jobs. It has long been the case that the best way to bring products to the consumer market is via devices, and that seems truer than ever: Android is probably going to be the most important canvas for shipping a lot of these capabilities, and Google’s XR glasses were pretty compelling (and, in my opinion, had a UX much closer to what I envision for XR than Meta’s Orion did). Devices drive usage at scale, but that actually leaves a lot of room for startups to build software products that incorporate AI to solve problems that people didn’t know they had; the challenge will be in reaching them, which is to say the startup problem is the same as ever. What makes ChatGPT so remarkable — andOpenAI the Accidental Consumer Tech Company— is that, like Google two-and-a-half decades ago, they have reached nearly a billion users almost entirely through word-of-mouth (the only distribution deal OpenAI has done is with Apple — more on this in a moment). This is exceptionally rare, and my longstanding opinion is that the obvious way to capitalize on this position is toroll out advertising. It is worth noting, however, that one challenge in trying to win in advertising is that you are, in the end, fighting on Google’s turf, i.e. the same Google that demonstrated its incredible model and infrastructure prowess at (well this is awkward, and surely couldn’t have been intentional, or was it?) I/O conferencejust yesterday. Yes, there are questions about Google’s product chops, and I already think that OpenAI is the best in AI at product, and they just addedJony Ive, and yes, OpenAI has the advantage of building an advertising business from scratch, giving them more degrees of freedom than Google, which has to worry about cannibalization and disruption, but Google is also moving AI into Search, and the infrastructure the company has built around advertising will take years and years to match. You can say the same thing about Meta. But taking a step back, I think in addition to the strategic alignment, I also think that there’s a very deep philosophical alignment on the direction that we want the next generation of computing to go. My brief take on the history here is that in every major computing platform there’s been an open ecosystem that’s focused on partnership and a more closed and integrated ecosystem. So with PC, Windows was the leading open ecosystem and, of course, Mac was the leading closed integrated one. On phones, Android is the leading open one and iOS is the leading closed one. I think one of the things that’s interesting in the history is that I don’t think it’s predetermined whether the open ecosystem or the closed one ends up being the primary ecosystem. I actually think it quite well could be the case that a partnership-driven and open ecosystem ends up being the primary one that the majority of people and the majority of the value is created on for the next computing platform. So I think our goal in our alignment here is not just about specific use cases, but I think we share a vision of wanting to not only help build the open Metaverse and the open version of the next set of platforms, but also make sure that the open ecosystem wins in this next round of computing. Implicit in Zuckerberg’s answer is the assumption that the company they are competing with in the long run is Apple, the “closed” option. Another way to frame the contrast, however, is between modular (Windows, Android) and integrated (Mac, iPhone). The integrated option — the Apple option — is monetized first-and-foremost through device sales; the modular option is modular in part because the underlying motivation of the operating system is to maximize reach, which in the case of Google means increasing the number of surfaces on which to control search and serve ads. These framings are, in reality, a bit too limiting to fully articulate the various strategic puts and takes; Google, for example, is deeply integrating Android with Google AI in the cloud, while continuing to lean on 3rd parties to actually build the hardware. Indeed, one of my chief critiques ofApple’s approach to AIis that, by trying to do AI themselves, they are trying to compete with Google on Google’s turf, when in fact the best way to leverage their devices is to give free on-device inference to developers (whichmight be announced at WWDC). Still, Google is, as Google does,focusing on being on as many devices as possible. To that end, while Zuckerberg assumes that Apple will be there in AR and VR, should Altman assume they will be there in AI? To put it another way, if you’re going to take on one tech giant directly, and you’re an AI company, isn’t Apple a much more attractive target than Google? And, if you think that way, should your focus be on building a horizontal service that runs everywhere, or on building a fully integrated offering that monetizes the high end through an experience that integrates hardware and software? And, if you want to build the best possible integrated hardware and software experience, the team —iois a veritable all-star collection of Apple talent that extends far beyond Ive — that built the last one is a reasonable place to start! Now you can certainly make the case that a team that has already succeeded and grown accustomed to Apple’s supply chain expertise and bargaining power isn’t the best fit for building a new hardware business from scratch; then again, hardware is so difficult that you can make the exact opposite case: you really shouldn’t start anywhere else. And, I would hasten to add, I certainly don’t expect ChatGPT to someday be exclusive toiodevices; the economics of a cloud business simply wouldn’t support that, and I have no trouble believing that Altman thinks he can take on the entire tech industry. Still, if you’re only ever going to be an app in the Android ecosystem, it’s not unreasonable to think the best route to winning is to build a superior device. The easier path is the one OpenAI started down last year with the aforementioned Apple deal, where Apple makes the devices and OpenAI makes the AI used on those devices. That’s why OpenAI was willing to make ChatGPT a part of Siri for free, even with the potentially huge costs that supporting non-ChatGPT subscribers might have entailed; I wroteafter WWDC 2024: This sounds like a play to acquire users and mindshare, with the potential of upselling those users to a subscription, i.e. the exact same model that OpenAI has on their website and apps. Moreover, if this partnership entails Apple not paying, it also explains why OpenAI is the only option to start: Google, for example, probably wanted to be paid for Gemini, or Anthropic for Claude, and I can imagine (1) Apple holding the line on not paying, particularly if (2) OpenAI is making an aggressive move to build out its consumer business and be a durable brand and winner in the consumer space. In short, my updated current thinking is that both Apple and OpenAI are making the bet that very large language models are becoming increasingly commoditized, which means that Apple doesn’t have to pay to get access to one, and OpenAI sees scale and consumer mindshare as the best route to a sustainable business. There are obviously many steps before a potential hardware product, including actually agreeing to build one. And there is, of course, the fact that Apple and Google already make devices everyone carries, with the latter in particular investing heavily in its own AI capabilities; betting on the hardware in market winning the hardware opportunity in AI is the safest bet. That may not be a reason for either OpenAI or Meta to abandon their efforts, though: waging a hardware battle against Google and Apple would be difficult, but it might be even worse to be “just an app” if the full realization of AI’s capabilities depend on fully removing human friction from the process. The Apple-OpenAI deal doesnotdo that; indeed, Apple actuallyaddsfriction by warning users that they are about to interact with an outside service, and that’s even before you remember that Apple’s number one priority will always be the phone itself — the very object Ive, at least, wants to diminish. You can see why this partnership might not be enough for OpenAI’s aspirations. Apple, meanwhile, is watching its strategic position in AI collapse, perhaps because they never took the technology seriously. That’s the takeaway froma blockbuster report from Mark Gurman in Bloomberg Businessweek, who suggests Apple’s AI issues are both older and worse than they have seemed. Basically: This remains the most attractive option in terms of economics: Apple avoids the capex investment necessary to stay on the cutting edge, even as its customers have the best possible access to said cutting edge. This news does, however, show the cracks in that approach: the most obvious candidate to replace Siri is ChatGPT, who just declared they are a competitor! As for the other candidates: It’s also worth noting that relying on 3rd-party AI is a blatant violation of the so-calledTim Cook doctrine, which states that “We believe that we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the products we make” (I say “so-called” because the doctrine also states that “we don’t settle for anything less than excellence in every group in the company, and we have the self-honesty to admit when we’re wrong and the courage to change”, both of which don’t appear to apply to AI and developer relations respectively). More than the products Apple makes, however, are the products they might want to make in the future, which may exist on the other side ofthe generative AI bridge. Given all of these issues, and the total heads-in-the-sand failure of Apple’s AI response depicted by Bloomberg, it does seem increasingly clear that the capex-lite opportunity is slipping away, and Apple is going to need to consider spending serious money. The most obvious way to do so is first on an acquisition, and then on the infrastructure to support the team they acquire. There’s one other possibility: build Apple Intelligence on Google Cloud and the Gemini APIs (as opposed to Gemini itself). Yes, you’ll have to pay on an ongoing basis, but I would imagine that Google would be willing to cut one heck of a deal; a customer of Apple’s scale would single-handedly justify a huge amount of their investment without cannibalizing Search. Apple, meanwhile, would have access to the best models overnight, and be able to focus their time and attention on productizing Google’s technology. Regardless, the biggest lesson of the last few years is that the best time for the company to take AI seriously was years ago; the next best (and dramatically more expensive) time is now. The third best time, whenever that comes in the future, may be too late. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025