# [PODCAST] The iPhone 16e; Apple Intelligence Table Stakes; Apple vs. U.K, Continued

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/the-iphone-16e-apple-intelligence-table-stakes-apple-vs-u-k-continued/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.p9mnbA7OxCMW2akVdg9Byu5h4Ksp-UhVab2xH-2usYHj7V8fyjFa7av2wE_yu28U77nTWbHiTrTVuGnmY27gmVaQQhUZm6avou4TldwEyjVZxKGDSRwqAeUbdTvKAKngO7PdIEWb-NZ4Q03hXKwtXoAF6Zgwl3CMRihNZTTAMjPKf-zwBO9NfRzJQsvh8NH3CZAe2fdyU3RImj2YfpgPadjsoufEGotiedDOlOiERBwJ_gIterrptgv0g3w8VLVEObgVz75AUyEbwpfuTEbX8QYlTQ4q2RgybccExny3Ml2IUg94gFfUyCTC_8YoRQCzNEMXM8o5DqjMPHxM3hj2KQ
**Atlas ID**: 229619
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.907861

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirThe iPhone 16e; Apple Intelligence Table Stakes; Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedMonday, February 24, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Andrew Sharp is back! There wasa new episodeof Greatest of All Talk late last week, and a new episode of Sharp Tech will drop shortly. Jon Yu, meanwhile, published videos on Asianometry aboutJapan’s semiconductor industryandSweden’s computer industry.On to the Update:The iPhone 16eFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. introduced a new low-end smartphone called the iPhone 16e priced at $599, aiming to revive growth after a sluggish holiday season. The rebranded device goes on sale Feb. 28 and will cost $170 more than the $429 iPhone SE that it replaces. Preorders for the phone begin Feb. 21.Apple modernized the device by removing the now-antiquated home button and adding a larger, 6.1-inch screen with Face ID. The model has a 48-megapixel camera, the same A18 chip as the iPhone 16 and a USB-C charging port. It also runs the company’s AI software, Apple Intelligence. In a first, the product also includes an in-house cellular modem chip. That replaces a key component from Qualcomm Inc. in a long-awaited shift.The new installment represents the biggest change in the history of Apple’s low-end iPhone, which was introduced as the SE in 2016 and last updated nearly three years ago. As part of the shift, the current iPhone SE and iPhone 14 have been discontinued…The new model should give Apple a more compelling way to reach the lower end of the smartphone market. The company spent years working on the device, aiming to close the gap between its low-end phone and the main iPhones with newer technologies like facial recognition.The dominant framing of the iPhone 16e is that Apple is abandoning the low-end phone market; Mark Gurman wrote in his weeklyBloomberg column:Apple Inc.’s revamped low-end iPhone has finally arrived and the most significant development isn’t a new feature or app, but rather the price. It’s $599, which is $170 more than the iPhone SE it replaces. That change puts the new iPhone 16e model in a whole different category than its predecessor. And it means Apple has effectively abandoned the budget smartphone market, ceding those sales to Samsung Electronics Co., Alphabet Inc.’s Google and the China-based players.It’s interesting to look at the history of the low-end iPhone:ModelReleasedPriceStorageSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GBSE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GBSE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GBSE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB16e2025$599128 GBThat is indeed a pretty big price increase! The first factor to consider, however, is inflation; here are historical prices normalized to January 2025:ModelReleasedPriceStorage2025 PriceSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GB$532SE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GB$520SE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GB$491SE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB$47416e2025$599128 GB$599That’s still a price increase, but a much lower one, particularly relative to the original iPhone SE. Still, even keeping pace with inflation is notable, because the most striking thing aboutrecent|iPhone|announcementsis the fact that Apple hasnotincreased prices with inflation, i.e. iPhones have gotten cheaper:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904The goal of this strategy has, presumably, been to sell more iPhones, thus maximizing the addressable market for Apple services, but that doesn’t seem to be working. Apple doesn’t disclose iPhone unit sales, but given that nominal pricing has remained the same it seems safe to assume that iPhone unit sales are basically holding steady:It’s impossible to prove a counterfactual of course; it may be the case that the iPhone’s decreasing real price has stopped a significant decline in unit sales. I think it’s more likely, however, that iPhone demand is pretty inelastic: if you want a new phone you’re going to get one, and Apple’s marketshare is what it is. And, to the extent that is the case, Apple is arguably leaving money on the table by not increasing iPhone prices to at least keep pace with inflation.Still, even with inflation accounted for, the 16e is stillmoreexpensive than its predecessors at the low end. There’s another factor to consider, though: tariffs. The recent 10% tariffs President Trump levied on all Chinese goods does not — in contrast to the tariffs in his first term — have an exception for iPhones.Tariffs are levied on the landed price of products, which is typically the invoice from the manufacturer plus freight and insurance costs; if we assume that Apple wants a 45% margin on every iPhone it sells, that necessitates a $21 price increase over the original iPhone SE:1st Gen SE price: $532Target margin: $239Landed price: $207Tariffs: $21Total: $553Now we’re within $46, or a bit more than half that amount to cover significantly upgraded components — including Face ID, much more storage, and an A18 chip — if Apple wants to keep their margins.Apple Intelligence Table StakesThere’s one more factor — which may ultimately invalidate the entire last section! — and I think it has to do with the name change from SE to 16e: the latter suggests that this iPhone will be upgraded somewhat regularly. To that end, note Apple’s current lineup:PriceChipiPhone 16 Pro$999A18 ProiPhone 16$799A18iPhone 15$699A16iPhone 16e$599A18If Apple followed their normal pattern than the iPhone 15 would drop by $100 next year, matching the current 16e price. In fact, I think the iPhone 15 will be discontinued, for one obvious reason: the A16 chip doesn’t support Apple Intelligence. Indeed, notice that Apple’s marketing pages place the iPhone 16e above the iPhone 15 even though it is less expensive and lacks features like MagSafe or dual-cameras:Honestly, I’m kind of surprised Apple didn’t just discontinue the iPhone 15 along with the iPhone 14; I expect that to happen this fall when the iPhone 16 will drop to $699, while the iPhone 16e will probably stick at $599.PriceChipiPhone 17 Pro$999A19 ProiPhone 17$799A19iPhone 16$699A18iPhone 16e$599A18Then, a year after that, things may be back to “normal”, with a lineup that looks something like this:PriceChipiPhone 18 Pro$999A20 ProiPhone 18$799A20iPhone 17$699A19iPhone 16$599A18iPhone 16e$499A18After that comes the update to the iPhone 17e — and in that world, the iPhone 16e might still be around!PriceChipiPhone 19 Pro$999A21 ProiPhone 19$799A21iPhone 18$699A20iPhone 17$599A19iPhone 17e$499A19iPhone 16e$399A18The key factor undergirding this analysis is the recognition that Apple sees Apple Intelligence support as table stakes for its entire lineup going forward; the problem is that Apple just couldn’t figure out a way to have a powerful enough phone that hit the traditional SE price point, so the company is resetting the lineup for the next couple of years, and eventually cheaper iPhones may be back.Honestly, I think this is the more compelling explanation for the 16e’s price; Apple wants to sell more devices to drive more services, and cheaper iPhones help with that. For now, however, Apple Intelligence across the lineup is a bigger priority.Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedFrom theWashington Post:Apple disabled its most secure data storage offering for new customers in Britain on Friday rather than comply with a secret government order that would have allowed police and intelligence agencies to access the encrypted content. The order under the country’s Investigatory Powers Act,reported by The Washington Posttwo weeks ago, requires the California maker of iPhones and Mac computers to create a backdoor capability allowing authorities to snoop on iCloud storage anywhere in the world.That would nullify the technology in Apple’s Advanced Data Protection service, which provides such strong encryption that the company itself is unable to retrieve users’ information. Apple rolled out that optional end-to-end encryption globally starting in late 2022…British customers who already have Advanced Data Protection will be warned later to disable it or lose access to iCloud.This response by Apple isexactly what I predictedwhen the Washington Post first broke the story: Apple would rather not offer Advanced Data Protection than insert a back door. Note, however, that this does not fully address the U.K.’s demands: they wanted a backdoor for all users, not just U.K. ones; we will see if the country pushes on this point, which would leave Apple no choice but to either comply or leave the market.I think I’ve explained this issue pretty comprehensively at this point, but just to be crystal clear, let me address these complaints by Epic CEO Tim Sweeney head-on:Crazy Apple PR spin being parroted here through different partisan channels. Apple just compromised all UK users by removing iCloud encryption and are having reporters say it was a brave act of rebellion. They think we’re all idiots, Apple customers and Apple employees alike!https://t.co/poiyiO9NOU— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025The Apple PR propaganda on this one is strong. Typically respectable reporters are touting Apple compromising encryption in the UK as somehow rebelling and refusing to build a “back door”. Folks, Apple just opened the FRONT DOOR.— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025I think my bonafides in terms of criticizing Apple — including itsat-times self-serving privacy policies— are pretty well-established at this point, so I’m happy to take this head-on. The fact of the matter is that Apple has to follow the laws of the countries in which it operates; that’s why, to take a pertinent example, iCloud keys for Chinese users are stored in China. In this case, the U.K. directive was specifically about Advanced Data Protection; Apple needed to either comply or withdraw the service (and, as noted above, that may not be enough).Moreover,as I noted last week, this is simply a return to the status quo and theuneasy compromisethat Apple had previously struck with law enforcement: iPhones are encrypted, but the default and easiest-path cloud backup service were not, and thus accessible with a warrant.Therefore, to Sweeney’s point, if this is opening the front door, well, the front door has been open for years, and even now is only closed if the user opts in to end-to-end iCloud encryption. In other words, there is no change for most U.K. users; saying Apple compromised the security of all of them is simply wrong, and suggesting that the company shouldn’t follow the laws in the countries in which it operates is a very weird stance for someone who spends most of their time lobbying for laws that compel Apple to change its behavior.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.09: Tough Decisions and TradeoffsDateFriday, February 28, 2025The iPhone 6: From Louis Vuitton to ChanelDateTuesday, September 2, 2014Boomer AppleDateTuesday, September 10, 2024←2025.08: How To Train Your DroneAI Promise and Chip Precariousness→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air The iPhone 16e; Apple Intelligence Table Stakes; Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedMonday, February 24, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Andrew Sharp is back! There wasa new episodeof Greatest of All Talk late last week, and a new episode of Sharp Tech will drop shortly. Jon Yu, meanwhile, published videos on Asianometry aboutJapan’s semiconductor industryandSweden’s computer industry.On to the Update:The iPhone 16eFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. introduced a new low-end smartphone called the iPhone 16e priced at $599, aiming to revive growth after a sluggish holiday season. The rebranded device goes on sale Feb. 28 and will cost $170 more than the $429 iPhone SE that it replaces. Preorders for the phone begin Feb. 21.Apple modernized the device by removing the now-antiquated home button and adding a larger, 6.1-inch screen with Face ID. The model has a 48-megapixel camera, the same A18 chip as the iPhone 16 and a USB-C charging port. It also runs the company’s AI software, Apple Intelligence. In a first, the product also includes an in-house cellular modem chip. That replaces a key component from Qualcomm Inc. in a long-awaited shift.The new installment represents the biggest change in the history of Apple’s low-end iPhone, which was introduced as the SE in 2016 and last updated nearly three years ago. As part of the shift, the current iPhone SE and iPhone 14 have been discontinued…The new model should give Apple a more compelling way to reach the lower end of the smartphone market. The company spent years working on the device, aiming to close the gap between its low-end phone and the main iPhones with newer technologies like facial recognition.The dominant framing of the iPhone 16e is that Apple is abandoning the low-end phone market; Mark Gurman wrote in his weeklyBloomberg column:Apple Inc.’s revamped low-end iPhone has finally arrived and the most significant development isn’t a new feature or app, but rather the price. It’s $599, which is $170 more than the iPhone SE it replaces. That change puts the new iPhone 16e model in a whole different category than its predecessor. And it means Apple has effectively abandoned the budget smartphone market, ceding those sales to Samsung Electronics Co., Alphabet Inc.’s Google and the China-based players.It’s interesting to look at the history of the low-end iPhone:ModelReleasedPriceStorageSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GBSE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GBSE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GBSE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB16e2025$599128 GBThat is indeed a pretty big price increase! The first factor to consider, however, is inflation; here are historical prices normalized to January 2025:ModelReleasedPriceStorage2025 PriceSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GB$532SE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GB$520SE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GB$491SE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB$47416e2025$599128 GB$599That’s still a price increase, but a much lower one, particularly relative to the original iPhone SE. Still, even keeping pace with inflation is notable, because the most striking thing aboutrecent|iPhone|announcementsis the fact that Apple hasnotincreased prices with inflation, i.e. iPhones have gotten cheaper:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904The goal of this strategy has, presumably, been to sell more iPhones, thus maximizing the addressable market for Apple services, but that doesn’t seem to be working. Apple doesn’t disclose iPhone unit sales, but given that nominal pricing has remained the same it seems safe to assume that iPhone unit sales are basically holding steady:It’s impossible to prove a counterfactual of course; it may be the case that the iPhone’s decreasing real price has stopped a significant decline in unit sales. I think it’s more likely, however, that iPhone demand is pretty inelastic: if you want a new phone you’re going to get one, and Apple’s marketshare is what it is. And, to the extent that is the case, Apple is arguably leaving money on the table by not increasing iPhone prices to at least keep pace with inflation.Still, even with inflation accounted for, the 16e is stillmoreexpensive than its predecessors at the low end. There’s another factor to consider, though: tariffs. The recent 10% tariffs President Trump levied on all Chinese goods does not — in contrast to the tariffs in his first term — have an exception for iPhones.Tariffs are levied on the landed price of products, which is typically the invoice from the manufacturer plus freight and insurance costs; if we assume that Apple wants a 45% margin on every iPhone it sells, that necessitates a $21 price increase over the original iPhone SE:1st Gen SE price: $532Target margin: $239Landed price: $207Tariffs: $21Total: $553Now we’re within $46, or a bit more than half that amount to cover significantly upgraded components — including Face ID, much more storage, and an A18 chip — if Apple wants to keep their margins.Apple Intelligence Table StakesThere’s one more factor — which may ultimately invalidate the entire last section! — and I think it has to do with the name change from SE to 16e: the latter suggests that this iPhone will be upgraded somewhat regularly. To that end, note Apple’s current lineup:PriceChipiPhone 16 Pro$999A18 ProiPhone 16$799A18iPhone 15$699A16iPhone 16e$599A18If Apple followed their normal pattern than the iPhone 15 would drop by $100 next year, matching the current 16e price. In fact, I think the iPhone 15 will be discontinued, for one obvious reason: the A16 chip doesn’t support Apple Intelligence. Indeed, notice that Apple’s marketing pages place the iPhone 16e above the iPhone 15 even though it is less expensive and lacks features like MagSafe or dual-cameras:Honestly, I’m kind of surprised Apple didn’t just discontinue the iPhone 15 along with the iPhone 14; I expect that to happen this fall when the iPhone 16 will drop to $699, while the iPhone 16e will probably stick at $599.PriceChipiPhone 17 Pro$999A19 ProiPhone 17$799A19iPhone 16$699A18iPhone 16e$599A18Then, a year after that, things may be back to “normal”, with a lineup that looks something like this:PriceChipiPhone 18 Pro$999A20 ProiPhone 18$799A20iPhone 17$699A19iPhone 16$599A18iPhone 16e$499A18After that comes the update to the iPhone 17e — and in that world, the iPhone 16e might still be around!PriceChipiPhone 19 Pro$999A21 ProiPhone 19$799A21iPhone 18$699A20iPhone 17$599A19iPhone 17e$499A19iPhone 16e$399A18The key factor undergirding this analysis is the recognition that Apple sees Apple Intelligence support as table stakes for its entire lineup going forward; the problem is that Apple just couldn’t figure out a way to have a powerful enough phone that hit the traditional SE price point, so the company is resetting the lineup for the next couple of years, and eventually cheaper iPhones may be back.Honestly, I think this is the more compelling explanation for the 16e’s price; Apple wants to sell more devices to drive more services, and cheaper iPhones help with that. For now, however, Apple Intelligence across the lineup is a bigger priority.Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedFrom theWashington Post:Apple disabled its most secure data storage offering for new customers in Britain on Friday rather than comply with a secret government order that would have allowed police and intelligence agencies to access the encrypted content. The order under the country’s Investigatory Powers Act,reported by The Washington Posttwo weeks ago, requires the California maker of iPhones and Mac computers to create a backdoor capability allowing authorities to snoop on iCloud storage anywhere in the world.That would nullify the technology in Apple’s Advanced Data Protection service, which provides such strong encryption that the company itself is unable to retrieve users’ information. Apple rolled out that optional end-to-end encryption globally starting in late 2022…British customers who already have Advanced Data Protection will be warned later to disable it or lose access to iCloud.This response by Apple isexactly what I predictedwhen the Washington Post first broke the story: Apple would rather not offer Advanced Data Protection than insert a back door. Note, however, that this does not fully address the U.K.’s demands: they wanted a backdoor for all users, not just U.K. ones; we will see if the country pushes on this point, which would leave Apple no choice but to either comply or leave the market.I think I’ve explained this issue pretty comprehensively at this point, but just to be crystal clear, let me address these complaints by Epic CEO Tim Sweeney head-on:Crazy Apple PR spin being parroted here through different partisan channels. Apple just compromised all UK users by removing iCloud encryption and are having reporters say it was a brave act of rebellion. They think we’re all idiots, Apple customers and Apple employees alike!https://t.co/poiyiO9NOU— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025The Apple PR propaganda on this one is strong. Typically respectable reporters are touting Apple compromising encryption in the UK as somehow rebelling and refusing to build a “back door”. Folks, Apple just opened the FRONT DOOR.— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025I think my bonafides in terms of criticizing Apple — including itsat-times self-serving privacy policies— are pretty well-established at this point, so I’m happy to take this head-on. The fact of the matter is that Apple has to follow the laws of the countries in which it operates; that’s why, to take a pertinent example, iCloud keys for Chinese users are stored in China. In this case, the U.K. directive was specifically about Advanced Data Protection; Apple needed to either comply or withdraw the service (and, as noted above, that may not be enough).Moreover,as I noted last week, this is simply a return to the status quo and theuneasy compromisethat Apple had previously struck with law enforcement: iPhones are encrypted, but the default and easiest-path cloud backup service were not, and thus accessible with a warrant.Therefore, to Sweeney’s point, if this is opening the front door, well, the front door has been open for years, and even now is only closed if the user opts in to end-to-end iCloud encryption. In other words, there is no change for most U.K. users; saying Apple compromised the security of all of them is simply wrong, and suggesting that the company shouldn’t follow the laws in the countries in which it operates is a very weird stance for someone who spends most of their time lobbying for laws that compel Apple to change its behavior.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.09: Tough Decisions and TradeoffsDateFriday, February 28, 2025The iPhone 6: From Louis Vuitton to ChanelDateTuesday, September 2, 2014Boomer AppleDateTuesday, September 10, 2024←2025.08: How To Train Your DroneAI Promise and Chip Precariousness→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All The iPhone 16e; Apple Intelligence Table Stakes; Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedMonday, February 24, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Andrew Sharp is back! There wasa new episodeof Greatest of All Talk late last week, and a new episode of Sharp Tech will drop shortly. Jon Yu, meanwhile, published videos on Asianometry aboutJapan’s semiconductor industryandSweden’s computer industry.On to the Update:The iPhone 16eFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. introduced a new low-end smartphone called the iPhone 16e priced at $599, aiming to revive growth after a sluggish holiday season. The rebranded device goes on sale Feb. 28 and will cost $170 more than the $429 iPhone SE that it replaces. Preorders for the phone begin Feb. 21.Apple modernized the device by removing the now-antiquated home button and adding a larger, 6.1-inch screen with Face ID. The model has a 48-megapixel camera, the same A18 chip as the iPhone 16 and a USB-C charging port. It also runs the company’s AI software, Apple Intelligence. In a first, the product also includes an in-house cellular modem chip. That replaces a key component from Qualcomm Inc. in a long-awaited shift.The new installment represents the biggest change in the history of Apple’s low-end iPhone, which was introduced as the SE in 2016 and last updated nearly three years ago. As part of the shift, the current iPhone SE and iPhone 14 have been discontinued…The new model should give Apple a more compelling way to reach the lower end of the smartphone market. The company spent years working on the device, aiming to close the gap between its low-end phone and the main iPhones with newer technologies like facial recognition.The dominant framing of the iPhone 16e is that Apple is abandoning the low-end phone market; Mark Gurman wrote in his weeklyBloomberg column:Apple Inc.’s revamped low-end iPhone has finally arrived and the most significant development isn’t a new feature or app, but rather the price. It’s $599, which is $170 more than the iPhone SE it replaces. That change puts the new iPhone 16e model in a whole different category than its predecessor. And it means Apple has effectively abandoned the budget smartphone market, ceding those sales to Samsung Electronics Co., Alphabet Inc.’s Google and the China-based players.It’s interesting to look at the history of the low-end iPhone:ModelReleasedPriceStorageSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GBSE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GBSE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GBSE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB16e2025$599128 GBThat is indeed a pretty big price increase! The first factor to consider, however, is inflation; here are historical prices normalized to January 2025:ModelReleasedPriceStorage2025 PriceSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GB$532SE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GB$520SE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GB$491SE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB$47416e2025$599128 GB$599That’s still a price increase, but a much lower one, particularly relative to the original iPhone SE. Still, even keeping pace with inflation is notable, because the most striking thing aboutrecent|iPhone|announcementsis the fact that Apple hasnotincreased prices with inflation, i.e. iPhones have gotten cheaper:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904The goal of this strategy has, presumably, been to sell more iPhones, thus maximizing the addressable market for Apple services, but that doesn’t seem to be working. Apple doesn’t disclose iPhone unit sales, but given that nominal pricing has remained the same it seems safe to assume that iPhone unit sales are basically holding steady:It’s impossible to prove a counterfactual of course; it may be the case that the iPhone’s decreasing real price has stopped a significant decline in unit sales. I think it’s more likely, however, that iPhone demand is pretty inelastic: if you want a new phone you’re going to get one, and Apple’s marketshare is what it is. And, to the extent that is the case, Apple is arguably leaving money on the table by not increasing iPhone prices to at least keep pace with inflation.Still, even with inflation accounted for, the 16e is stillmoreexpensive than its predecessors at the low end. There’s another factor to consider, though: tariffs. The recent 10% tariffs President Trump levied on all Chinese goods does not — in contrast to the tariffs in his first term — have an exception for iPhones.Tariffs are levied on the landed price of products, which is typically the invoice from the manufacturer plus freight and insurance costs; if we assume that Apple wants a 45% margin on every iPhone it sells, that necessitates a $21 price increase over the original iPhone SE:1st Gen SE price: $532Target margin: $239Landed price: $207Tariffs: $21Total: $553Now we’re within $46, or a bit more than half that amount to cover significantly upgraded components — including Face ID, much more storage, and an A18 chip — if Apple wants to keep their margins.Apple Intelligence Table StakesThere’s one more factor — which may ultimately invalidate the entire last section! — and I think it has to do with the name change from SE to 16e: the latter suggests that this iPhone will be upgraded somewhat regularly. To that end, note Apple’s current lineup:PriceChipiPhone 16 Pro$999A18 ProiPhone 16$799A18iPhone 15$699A16iPhone 16e$599A18If Apple followed their normal pattern than the iPhone 15 would drop by $100 next year, matching the current 16e price. In fact, I think the iPhone 15 will be discontinued, for one obvious reason: the A16 chip doesn’t support Apple Intelligence. Indeed, notice that Apple’s marketing pages place the iPhone 16e above the iPhone 15 even though it is less expensive and lacks features like MagSafe or dual-cameras:Honestly, I’m kind of surprised Apple didn’t just discontinue the iPhone 15 along with the iPhone 14; I expect that to happen this fall when the iPhone 16 will drop to $699, while the iPhone 16e will probably stick at $599.PriceChipiPhone 17 Pro$999A19 ProiPhone 17$799A19iPhone 16$699A18iPhone 16e$599A18Then, a year after that, things may be back to “normal”, with a lineup that looks something like this:PriceChipiPhone 18 Pro$999A20 ProiPhone 18$799A20iPhone 17$699A19iPhone 16$599A18iPhone 16e$499A18After that comes the update to the iPhone 17e — and in that world, the iPhone 16e might still be around!PriceChipiPhone 19 Pro$999A21 ProiPhone 19$799A21iPhone 18$699A20iPhone 17$599A19iPhone 17e$499A19iPhone 16e$399A18The key factor undergirding this analysis is the recognition that Apple sees Apple Intelligence support as table stakes for its entire lineup going forward; the problem is that Apple just couldn’t figure out a way to have a powerful enough phone that hit the traditional SE price point, so the company is resetting the lineup for the next couple of years, and eventually cheaper iPhones may be back.Honestly, I think this is the more compelling explanation for the 16e’s price; Apple wants to sell more devices to drive more services, and cheaper iPhones help with that. For now, however, Apple Intelligence across the lineup is a bigger priority.Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedFrom theWashington Post:Apple disabled its most secure data storage offering for new customers in Britain on Friday rather than comply with a secret government order that would have allowed police and intelligence agencies to access the encrypted content. The order under the country’s Investigatory Powers Act,reported by The Washington Posttwo weeks ago, requires the California maker of iPhones and Mac computers to create a backdoor capability allowing authorities to snoop on iCloud storage anywhere in the world.That would nullify the technology in Apple’s Advanced Data Protection service, which provides such strong encryption that the company itself is unable to retrieve users’ information. Apple rolled out that optional end-to-end encryption globally starting in late 2022…British customers who already have Advanced Data Protection will be warned later to disable it or lose access to iCloud.This response by Apple isexactly what I predictedwhen the Washington Post first broke the story: Apple would rather not offer Advanced Data Protection than insert a back door. Note, however, that this does not fully address the U.K.’s demands: they wanted a backdoor for all users, not just U.K. ones; we will see if the country pushes on this point, which would leave Apple no choice but to either comply or leave the market.I think I’ve explained this issue pretty comprehensively at this point, but just to be crystal clear, let me address these complaints by Epic CEO Tim Sweeney head-on:Crazy Apple PR spin being parroted here through different partisan channels. Apple just compromised all UK users by removing iCloud encryption and are having reporters say it was a brave act of rebellion. They think we’re all idiots, Apple customers and Apple employees alike!https://t.co/poiyiO9NOU— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025The Apple PR propaganda on this one is strong. Typically respectable reporters are touting Apple compromising encryption in the UK as somehow rebelling and refusing to build a “back door”. Folks, Apple just opened the FRONT DOOR.— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025I think my bonafides in terms of criticizing Apple — including itsat-times self-serving privacy policies— are pretty well-established at this point, so I’m happy to take this head-on. The fact of the matter is that Apple has to follow the laws of the countries in which it operates; that’s why, to take a pertinent example, iCloud keys for Chinese users are stored in China. In this case, the U.K. directive was specifically about Advanced Data Protection; Apple needed to either comply or withdraw the service (and, as noted above, that may not be enough).Moreover,as I noted last week, this is simply a return to the status quo and theuneasy compromisethat Apple had previously struck with law enforcement: iPhones are encrypted, but the default and easiest-path cloud backup service were not, and thus accessible with a warrant.Therefore, to Sweeney’s point, if this is opening the front door, well, the front door has been open for years, and even now is only closed if the user opts in to end-to-end iCloud encryption. In other words, there is no change for most U.K. users; saying Apple compromised the security of all of them is simply wrong, and suggesting that the company shouldn’t follow the laws in the countries in which it operates is a very weird stance for someone who spends most of their time lobbying for laws that compel Apple to change its behavior.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.09: Tough Decisions and TradeoffsDateFriday, February 28, 2025The iPhone 6: From Louis Vuitton to ChanelDateTuesday, September 2, 2014Boomer AppleDateTuesday, September 10, 2024←2025.08: How To Train Your DroneAI Promise and Chip Precariousness→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Andrew Sharp is back! There wasa new episodeof Greatest of All Talk late last week, and a new episode of Sharp Tech will drop shortly. Jon Yu, meanwhile, published videos on Asianometry aboutJapan’s semiconductor industryandSweden’s computer industry.On to the Update:The iPhone 16eFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. introduced a new low-end smartphone called the iPhone 16e priced at $599, aiming to revive growth after a sluggish holiday season. The rebranded device goes on sale Feb. 28 and will cost $170 more than the $429 iPhone SE that it replaces. Preorders for the phone begin Feb. 21.Apple modernized the device by removing the now-antiquated home button and adding a larger, 6.1-inch screen with Face ID. The model has a 48-megapixel camera, the same A18 chip as the iPhone 16 and a USB-C charging port. It also runs the company’s AI software, Apple Intelligence. In a first, the product also includes an in-house cellular modem chip. That replaces a key component from Qualcomm Inc. in a long-awaited shift.The new installment represents the biggest change in the history of Apple’s low-end iPhone, which was introduced as the SE in 2016 and last updated nearly three years ago. As part of the shift, the current iPhone SE and iPhone 14 have been discontinued…The new model should give Apple a more compelling way to reach the lower end of the smartphone market. The company spent years working on the device, aiming to close the gap between its low-end phone and the main iPhones with newer technologies like facial recognition.The dominant framing of the iPhone 16e is that Apple is abandoning the low-end phone market; Mark Gurman wrote in his weeklyBloomberg column:Apple Inc.’s revamped low-end iPhone has finally arrived and the most significant development isn’t a new feature or app, but rather the price. It’s $599, which is $170 more than the iPhone SE it replaces. That change puts the new iPhone 16e model in a whole different category than its predecessor. And it means Apple has effectively abandoned the budget smartphone market, ceding those sales to Samsung Electronics Co., Alphabet Inc.’s Google and the China-based players.It’s interesting to look at the history of the low-end iPhone:ModelReleasedPriceStorageSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GBSE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GBSE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GBSE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB16e2025$599128 GBThat is indeed a pretty big price increase! The first factor to consider, however, is inflation; here are historical prices normalized to January 2025:ModelReleasedPriceStorage2025 PriceSE 1st Gen2016$39916 GB$532SE 1st Gen v22017$39932 GB$520SE 2nd Gen2020$39964 GB$491SE 3rd Gen2022$42964 GB$47416e2025$599128 GB$599That’s still a price increase, but a much lower one, particularly relative to the original iPhone SE. Still, even keeping pace with inflation is notable, because the most striking thing aboutrecent|iPhone|announcementsis the fact that Apple hasnotincreased prices with inflation, i.e. iPhones have gotten cheaper:202020212022202320242 year old iPhone$499$477$441$422$4111 year old iPhone$599$572$530$507$493New iPhone$799$763$707$676$657iPhone Pro$999$954$883$846$822iPhone Pro Max$1,099$1,050$972$1,015$904The goal of this strategy has, presumably, been to sell more iPhones, thus maximizing the addressable market for Apple services, but that doesn’t seem to be working. Apple doesn’t disclose iPhone unit sales, but given that nominal pricing has remained the same it seems safe to assume that iPhone unit sales are basically holding steady:It’s impossible to prove a counterfactual of course; it may be the case that the iPhone’s decreasing real price has stopped a significant decline in unit sales. I think it’s more likely, however, that iPhone demand is pretty inelastic: if you want a new phone you’re going to get one, and Apple’s marketshare is what it is. And, to the extent that is the case, Apple is arguably leaving money on the table by not increasing iPhone prices to at least keep pace with inflation.Still, even with inflation accounted for, the 16e is stillmoreexpensive than its predecessors at the low end. There’s another factor to consider, though: tariffs. The recent 10% tariffs President Trump levied on all Chinese goods does not — in contrast to the tariffs in his first term — have an exception for iPhones.Tariffs are levied on the landed price of products, which is typically the invoice from the manufacturer plus freight and insurance costs; if we assume that Apple wants a 45% margin on every iPhone it sells, that necessitates a $21 price increase over the original iPhone SE:1st Gen SE price: $532Target margin: $239Landed price: $207Tariffs: $21Total: $553Now we’re within $46, or a bit more than half that amount to cover significantly upgraded components — including Face ID, much more storage, and an A18 chip — if Apple wants to keep their margins.Apple Intelligence Table StakesThere’s one more factor — which may ultimately invalidate the entire last section! — and I think it has to do with the name change from SE to 16e: the latter suggests that this iPhone will be upgraded somewhat regularly. To that end, note Apple’s current lineup:PriceChipiPhone 16 Pro$999A18 ProiPhone 16$799A18iPhone 15$699A16iPhone 16e$599A18If Apple followed their normal pattern than the iPhone 15 would drop by $100 next year, matching the current 16e price. In fact, I think the iPhone 15 will be discontinued, for one obvious reason: the A16 chip doesn’t support Apple Intelligence. Indeed, notice that Apple’s marketing pages place the iPhone 16e above the iPhone 15 even though it is less expensive and lacks features like MagSafe or dual-cameras:Honestly, I’m kind of surprised Apple didn’t just discontinue the iPhone 15 along with the iPhone 14; I expect that to happen this fall when the iPhone 16 will drop to $699, while the iPhone 16e will probably stick at $599.PriceChipiPhone 17 Pro$999A19 ProiPhone 17$799A19iPhone 16$699A18iPhone 16e$599A18Then, a year after that, things may be back to “normal”, with a lineup that looks something like this:PriceChipiPhone 18 Pro$999A20 ProiPhone 18$799A20iPhone 17$699A19iPhone 16$599A18iPhone 16e$499A18After that comes the update to the iPhone 17e — and in that world, the iPhone 16e might still be around!PriceChipiPhone 19 Pro$999A21 ProiPhone 19$799A21iPhone 18$699A20iPhone 17$599A19iPhone 17e$499A19iPhone 16e$399A18The key factor undergirding this analysis is the recognition that Apple sees Apple Intelligence support as table stakes for its entire lineup going forward; the problem is that Apple just couldn’t figure out a way to have a powerful enough phone that hit the traditional SE price point, so the company is resetting the lineup for the next couple of years, and eventually cheaper iPhones may be back.Honestly, I think this is the more compelling explanation for the 16e’s price; Apple wants to sell more devices to drive more services, and cheaper iPhones help with that. For now, however, Apple Intelligence across the lineup is a bigger priority.Apple vs. U.K, ContinuedFrom theWashington Post:Apple disabled its most secure data storage offering for new customers in Britain on Friday rather than comply with a secret government order that would have allowed police and intelligence agencies to access the encrypted content. The order under the country’s Investigatory Powers Act,reported by The Washington Posttwo weeks ago, requires the California maker of iPhones and Mac computers to create a backdoor capability allowing authorities to snoop on iCloud storage anywhere in the world.That would nullify the technology in Apple’s Advanced Data Protection service, which provides such strong encryption that the company itself is unable to retrieve users’ information. Apple rolled out that optional end-to-end encryption globally starting in late 2022…British customers who already have Advanced Data Protection will be warned later to disable it or lose access to iCloud.This response by Apple isexactly what I predictedwhen the Washington Post first broke the story: Apple would rather not offer Advanced Data Protection than insert a back door. Note, however, that this does not fully address the U.K.’s demands: they wanted a backdoor for all users, not just U.K. ones; we will see if the country pushes on this point, which would leave Apple no choice but to either comply or leave the market.I think I’ve explained this issue pretty comprehensively at this point, but just to be crystal clear, let me address these complaints by Epic CEO Tim Sweeney head-on:Crazy Apple PR spin being parroted here through different partisan channels. Apple just compromised all UK users by removing iCloud encryption and are having reporters say it was a brave act of rebellion. They think we’re all idiots, Apple customers and Apple employees alike!https://t.co/poiyiO9NOU— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025The Apple PR propaganda on this one is strong. Typically respectable reporters are touting Apple compromising encryption in the UK as somehow rebelling and refusing to build a “back door”. Folks, Apple just opened the FRONT DOOR.— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025I think my bonafides in terms of criticizing Apple — including itsat-times self-serving privacy policies— are pretty well-established at this point, so I’m happy to take this head-on. The fact of the matter is that Apple has to follow the laws of the countries in which it operates; that’s why, to take a pertinent example, iCloud keys for Chinese users are stored in China. In this case, the U.K. directive was specifically about Advanced Data Protection; Apple needed to either comply or withdraw the service (and, as noted above, that may not be enough).Moreover,as I noted last week, this is simply a return to the status quo and theuneasy compromisethat Apple had previously struck with law enforcement: iPhones are encrypted, but the default and easiest-path cloud backup service were not, and thus accessible with a warrant.Therefore, to Sweeney’s point, if this is opening the front door, well, the front door has been open for years, and even now is only closed if the user opts in to end-to-end iCloud encryption. In other words, there is no change for most U.K. users; saying Apple compromised the security of all of them is simply wrong, and suggesting that the company shouldn’t follow the laws in the countries in which it operates is a very weird stance for someone who spends most of their time lobbying for laws that compel Apple to change its behavior.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Andrew Sharp is back! There wasa new episodeof Greatest of All Talk late last week, and a new episode of Sharp Tech will drop shortly. Jon Yu, meanwhile, published videos on Asianometry aboutJapan’s semiconductor industryandSweden’s computer industry. Apple Inc. introduced a new low-end smartphone called the iPhone 16e priced at $599, aiming to revive growth after a sluggish holiday season. The rebranded device goes on sale Feb. 28 and will cost $170 more than the $429 iPhone SE that it replaces. Preorders for the phone begin Feb. 21. Apple modernized the device by removing the now-antiquated home button and adding a larger, 6.1-inch screen with Face ID. The model has a 48-megapixel camera, the same A18 chip as the iPhone 16 and a USB-C charging port. It also runs the company’s AI software, Apple Intelligence. In a first, the product also includes an in-house cellular modem chip. That replaces a key component from Qualcomm Inc. in a long-awaited shift. The new installment represents the biggest change in the history of Apple’s low-end iPhone, which was introduced as the SE in 2016 and last updated nearly three years ago. As part of the shift, the current iPhone SE and iPhone 14 have been discontinued…The new model should give Apple a more compelling way to reach the lower end of the smartphone market. The company spent years working on the device, aiming to close the gap between its low-end phone and the main iPhones with newer technologies like facial recognition. Apple Inc.’s revamped low-end iPhone has finally arrived and the most significant development isn’t a new feature or app, but rather the price. It’s $599, which is $170 more than the iPhone SE it replaces. That change puts the new iPhone 16e model in a whole different category than its predecessor. And it means Apple has effectively abandoned the budget smartphone market, ceding those sales to Samsung Electronics Co., Alphabet Inc.’s Google and the China-based players. That’s still a price increase, but a much lower one, particularly relative to the original iPhone SE. Still, even keeping pace with inflation is notable, because the most striking thing aboutrecent|iPhone|announcementsis the fact that Apple hasnotincreased prices with inflation, i.e. iPhones have gotten cheaper: The goal of this strategy has, presumably, been to sell more iPhones, thus maximizing the addressable market for Apple services, but that doesn’t seem to be working. Apple doesn’t disclose iPhone unit sales, but given that nominal pricing has remained the same it seems safe to assume that iPhone unit sales are basically holding steady: It’s impossible to prove a counterfactual of course; it may be the case that the iPhone’s decreasing real price has stopped a significant decline in unit sales. I think it’s more likely, however, that iPhone demand is pretty inelastic: if you want a new phone you’re going to get one, and Apple’s marketshare is what it is. And, to the extent that is the case, Apple is arguably leaving money on the table by not increasing iPhone prices to at least keep pace with inflation. Still, even with inflation accounted for, the 16e is stillmoreexpensive than its predecessors at the low end. There’s another factor to consider, though: tariffs. The recent 10% tariffs President Trump levied on all Chinese goods does not — in contrast to the tariffs in his first term — have an exception for iPhones. Tariffs are levied on the landed price of products, which is typically the invoice from the manufacturer plus freight and insurance costs; if we assume that Apple wants a 45% margin on every iPhone it sells, that necessitates a $21 price increase over the original iPhone SE: There’s one more factor — which may ultimately invalidate the entire last section! — and I think it has to do with the name change from SE to 16e: the latter suggests that this iPhone will be upgraded somewhat regularly. To that end, note Apple’s current lineup: If Apple followed their normal pattern than the iPhone 15 would drop by $100 next year, matching the current 16e price. In fact, I think the iPhone 15 will be discontinued, for one obvious reason: the A16 chip doesn’t support Apple Intelligence. Indeed, notice that Apple’s marketing pages place the iPhone 16e above the iPhone 15 even though it is less expensive and lacks features like MagSafe or dual-cameras: Honestly, I’m kind of surprised Apple didn’t just discontinue the iPhone 15 along with the iPhone 14; I expect that to happen this fall when the iPhone 16 will drop to $699, while the iPhone 16e will probably stick at $599. The key factor undergirding this analysis is the recognition that Apple sees Apple Intelligence support as table stakes for its entire lineup going forward; the problem is that Apple just couldn’t figure out a way to have a powerful enough phone that hit the traditional SE price point, so the company is resetting the lineup for the next couple of years, and eventually cheaper iPhones may be back. Honestly, I think this is the more compelling explanation for the 16e’s price; Apple wants to sell more devices to drive more services, and cheaper iPhones help with that. For now, however, Apple Intelligence across the lineup is a bigger priority. Apple disabled its most secure data storage offering for new customers in Britain on Friday rather than comply with a secret government order that would have allowed police and intelligence agencies to access the encrypted content. The order under the country’s Investigatory Powers Act,reported by The Washington Posttwo weeks ago, requires the California maker of iPhones and Mac computers to create a backdoor capability allowing authorities to snoop on iCloud storage anywhere in the world. That would nullify the technology in Apple’s Advanced Data Protection service, which provides such strong encryption that the company itself is unable to retrieve users’ information. Apple rolled out that optional end-to-end encryption globally starting in late 2022…British customers who already have Advanced Data Protection will be warned later to disable it or lose access to iCloud. This response by Apple isexactly what I predictedwhen the Washington Post first broke the story: Apple would rather not offer Advanced Data Protection than insert a back door. Note, however, that this does not fully address the U.K.’s demands: they wanted a backdoor for all users, not just U.K. ones; we will see if the country pushes on this point, which would leave Apple no choice but to either comply or leave the market. Crazy Apple PR spin being parroted here through different partisan channels. Apple just compromised all UK users by removing iCloud encryption and are having reporters say it was a brave act of rebellion. They think we’re all idiots, Apple customers and Apple employees alike!https://t.co/poiyiO9NOU— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025 Crazy Apple PR spin being parroted here through different partisan channels. Apple just compromised all UK users by removing iCloud encryption and are having reporters say it was a brave act of rebellion. They think we’re all idiots, Apple customers and Apple employees alike!https://t.co/poiyiO9NOU The Apple PR propaganda on this one is strong. Typically respectable reporters are touting Apple compromising encryption in the UK as somehow rebelling and refusing to build a “back door”. Folks, Apple just opened the FRONT DOOR.— Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic)February 21, 2025 The Apple PR propaganda on this one is strong. Typically respectable reporters are touting Apple compromising encryption in the UK as somehow rebelling and refusing to build a “back door”. Folks, Apple just opened the FRONT DOOR. I think my bonafides in terms of criticizing Apple — including itsat-times self-serving privacy policies— are pretty well-established at this point, so I’m happy to take this head-on. The fact of the matter is that Apple has to follow the laws of the countries in which it operates; that’s why, to take a pertinent example, iCloud keys for Chinese users are stored in China. In this case, the U.K. directive was specifically about Advanced Data Protection; Apple needed to either comply or withdraw the service (and, as noted above, that may not be enough). Moreover,as I noted last week, this is simply a return to the status quo and theuneasy compromisethat Apple had previously struck with law enforcement: iPhones are encrypted, but the default and easiest-path cloud backup service were not, and thus accessible with a warrant. Therefore, to Sweeney’s point, if this is opening the front door, well, the front door has been open for years, and even now is only closed if the user opts in to end-to-end iCloud encryption. In other words, there is no change for most U.K. users; saying Apple compromised the security of all of them is simply wrong, and suggesting that the company shouldn’t follow the laws in the countries in which it operates is a very weird stance for someone who spends most of their time lobbying for laws that compel Apple to change its behavior. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025