# [PODCAST] The OpenAI Critique, Comparative Advantage and Infrastructure, Aggregation Theory and Cheap AI

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/the-openai-critique-comparative-advantage-and-infrastructure-aggregation-theory-and-cheap-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.RNdaJbMgzxuRUPT55h2pY8ohttQ4kD8vcLdfwA1tf5T-MW2KzZHIfPxAeC26aiNrNeTE7yYUqcoXaCgeOyfhLD8WY6TVMrwbFlGmp2IjL8Px6B703Zj8E-fZL2pgYVRXkCOTSuUFzIrEacuURckVP8u5_uMjiNGgft7OTbVJh3XUJmnG931DzINiA3bAo4lEcbkkRNTt4dFHyrMjPRZcn2Z6nsSRZrOY8ajbj0QOgvIAe4UfNL7d6wd0BeHlb0lJsU93Ve4Fhy8Ex_TVWKVmb8xB8c-Nq2-vwxNBApZ-_S03Z_Tnr3HPHpGclNZuBckcNnTY_1fLmyQgxmiKdl0umA
**Atlas ID**: 229634
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.915435

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirThe OpenAI Critique, Comparative Advantage and Infrastructure, Aggregation Theory and Cheap AITuesday, January 28, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew basically gave me a dry run of theDeepSeek FAQ. Onlast Thursday’s episode, we also discussedR1, along with Stargate and the slow divorce of Microsoft and OpenAI.U.S. tech stocks, meanwhile, ended the day in a fairly understandable place: chips and datacenter stocks were down strongly, Google and Microsoft were slightly down, while Facebook, Apple, and Amazon were up; this ended up being largely in line with my prognostication in yesterday’s Article, as investors wrapped their minds around the implications of cheap AI.On to the Update, which is very much a follow-up and expansion to yesterday’s Article.The OpenAI CritiqueI wrote in yesterday’s conclusion:That leaves America, and a choice we have to make. We could, for very logical reasons, double down on defensive measures, like massively expanding the chip ban and imposing a permission-based regulatory regime on chips and semiconductor equipment that mirrors the E.U.’s approach to tech; alternatively, we could realize that we have real competition, and actually give ourself permission to compete. Stop wringing our hands, stop campaigning for regulations — indeed, go the other way, and cut out all of the cruft in our companies that has nothing to do with winning. If we choose to compete we can still win, and, if we do, we will have a Chinese company to thank.Some folks read this as being simply about government regulations — and I did specifically mention thePresident Biden executive order on AI, whichPresident Trump has already repealed— but that misses the deeper point I was driving at.One of the intense frustrations of the last few years of AI debate has been themotte-and-baileyaspect of the safety question. I understand and grant the very real concerns about AI safety — that’s the “motte” in the safety argument — but the way that AI safety has too often manifested has been through the imposition of various cultural mores that roughly align with San Francisco politics — that’s the “bailey”. Indeed, if you look again at the excerpt fromOpenAI’s GPT-2 announcementthat I linked to yesterday, it’s right there in the first sentence:Due to concerns about large language models being used to generate deceptive, biased, or abusive language at scale, we are only releasing a much smaller version of GPT-2 along with sampling code. We are not releasing the dataset, training code, or GPT-2 model weights…We are aware that some researchers have the technical capacity to reproduce and open source our results. We believe our release strategy limits the initial set of organizations who may choose to do this, and gives the AI community more time to have a discussion about the implications of such systems.First off, “deceptive, biased, or abusive language” is not a human extinction level danger. Second, who decides what is “deceptive, biased, or abusive”? And third, whatever your position on these questions, I think we can all agree that a tremendous amount of time and effort has been devoted to arguing about these cultural war issues — and implementing one side or the other of them — and by definition that time has an opportunity cost! More broadly, I think it is completely valid to argue that a lot of time and energy in tech has been devoted to many things other than actual tech, and that the justification for that lack of focus has been rooted in an assumption that the U.S. generally and Big Tech companies specifically have unassailable advantages. That’s not the case!OpenAI is not, to be fair, what we would consider “Big Tech”, but that makes their own self-assuredness in their position that much more striking. Go back to the release ofo1, andtheir blog post at the time:We believe that a hidden chain of thought presents a unique opportunity for monitoring models. Assuming it is faithful and legible, the hidden chain of thought allows us to “read the mind” of the model and understand its thought process. For example, in the future we may wish to monitor the chain of thought for signs of manipulating the user. However, for this to work the model must have freedom to express its thoughts in unaltered form, so we cannot train any policy compliance or user preferences onto the chain of thought. We also do not want to make an unaligned chain of thought directly visible to users.Therefore, after weighing multiple factors including user experience, competitive advantage, and the option to pursue the chain of thought monitoring, we have decided not to show the raw chains of thought to users. We acknowledge this decision has disadvantages. We strive to partially make up for it by teaching the model to reproduce any useful ideas from the chain of thought in the answer. For theo1model series we show a model-generated summary of the chain of thought.R1, which does show its chain of though, has shown that this was a mistake.Exposed chain-of-thought teaches users how to do better prompting, because they can see exactly where the AI gets confused. It’s a superior product experience for this reason alone.Exposed chain-of-thought increases trust in the model, because you gain an understanding of how it is arriving at the answer.Exposed chain-of-thought is just cool and endearing. One thing that was interesting with the normie discovery ofR1is how delightful they found the experience, and keep in mind, most of these folks are probably on the free tier of ChatGPT, which means they didn’t even have access too1at all (but theywill now).I did understand OpenAI’s competitive concerns, but the existence ofR1has shown that locking down chain-of-thought perhaps didn’t matter so much in the end; more generally, the consideration of competitive concerns gets back to my overall critique, that the U.S. approach to competition is too rooted in stopping and blocking would-be competitors instead of out-innovating them. And, of course, there is all that language about “policy compliance” and the horror of the model having “freedom to express its thoughts in unadultered form”. Every single bit of it is a distraction, and the distractions have to go — particularly if you are worried about the actual legitimate safety concerns.Comparative Advantage and InfrastructureThere are two tweets I want to highlight.The first is from Yishan Wong:I think the Deepseek moment is not really the Sputnik moment, but more like the Google moment.If anyone was around in ~2004, you'll know what I mean, but more on that later.I think everyone is over-rotated on this because Deepseek came out of China. Let me try to un-rotate…— Yishan (@yishan)January 28, 2025It’s a long tweet, but I encourage you to read the whole thing; here is the key segment for purposes of this Update:Sputnik showed that the Soviets could do something the US couldn’t (“a new fearsome power”). They didn’t subsequently publish all the technical details and half the blueprints. They only showed that it could be done. With Deepseek, if I recall correctly, a lab in Berkeley read their paper and duplicated the claimed results on a small scale within a day.That’s why I say it’s like the Google moment in 2004. Google filed its S-1 in 2004, and revealed to the world that they had built the largest supercomputer cluster by using distributed algorithms to network together commodity computers at the best performance-per-dollar point on the cost curve. This was in contrast to every other tech company, who at that time just bought what were essentially larger and larger mainframes, always at the most expensive leading edge of the cost curve.Again,read the whole tweet, but a few points:It’s hard to overstate what a favor DeepSeek did to basically everyone by open-sourcing their model and explaining exactly how they accomplished what they did. They could have — and from a geopolitical perspective, arguably should have — kept all of their progress secret, even as China built drastically more efficient AI infrastructure than the U.S., potentially erasing the U.S.’s silicon advantage.Google’s innovation in infrastructure is truly incredible and still underrated. And, it should be noted,they are still by far the best in terms of AI infrastructure.The “Google moment” that Yishan references did end up being the end-of-the-line for specialized server makers like Sun, and significantly capped the upside for other dedicated hardware vendors who now had to compete with software-defined commodity hardware. More generally, cheap hardware meantthe conservation of attractive profitsdrove the key point of integration up the stack, to the app layer in Google’s case, and scaled cloud services for AWS.The second tweet is from @roon, who works at OpenAI:this is not the right lessonthere’s an opportunity cost to researcher time and if they’re spending it micro optimizing PTX to make the best of limited comms that’s something else they weren’t doingnerfing some aspect of the hardware is never a benefithttps://t.co/tzsPxT0EX1— roon (@tszzl)January 27, 2025The most dangerous lure about thinking in terms of comparative advantage is how time and learning curves lead you to consequences that you never considered when you made your decision. I wrote about exactly this last year inA Chance to Build; I started the post by describing how U.S. semiconductor companies kicked off outsourcing to Asia, and tied that to the fact that Apple can’t make an iPhone in the U.S.:I think that Jobs had cause-and-effect backwards: there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineers in the U.S. because there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineering jobs to be filled. That is because the structure of the world economy — choices made starting with Bretton Woods in particular, and cemented by the removal of tariffs over time — made them nonviable. Say what you will about the viability or wisdom of Trump’s tariffs, the motivation — to undo eighty years of structural changes — is pretty straightforward!The other thing about Jobs’ answer is how ultimately self-serving it was. This is not to say it was wrong: Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.Connect this to Google: what if Google had taken @roon’s advice, and not wasted the time of valuable “researchers” in transforming how data centers are built? Perhaps they could have waited until Alibaba did it a decade later, and rented capacity? And, in the meantime, they would have been a far smaller and less significant company specifically, and the entire U.S. tech industry would be similarly stunted generally.To be fair to @roon, he does seem to be talking narrowly about the specific optimizations that DeepSeek made to overcome the H800’s nerfed memory bandwidth, but I think the critique holds more generally: U.S. tech companies, including OpenAI, have clearly in retrospect been Nvidia’s willing suckers, happy to pay for more capacity instead of wringing out their own; how many years would it have taken them to discover DeepSeek’s breakthroughs independently? No, infrastructure optimization isn’t sexy, but it matters.Indeed, I’d go further: every person in AI is echoingSatya Nadella’s invocation of Jevons paradox, i.e. the idea that cheaper computing drives  more usage, but the reason you know that is cope — even if it’s true! — is because the revealed preference of every tech company was that they saw more value in one more researcher than in one more infrastructure engineer. Which again, is why every single person who actually believes in AI and Jevons paradox should be sending thank you notes to DeepSeek.Aggregation Theory and Cheap AIBack in January Doug O’Laughlin wrote his2025 AI & Semiconductor Outlookon Fabricated Knowledge:I will admit. After two incredible years of the AI trade, I was worried that it would become long in the tooth at the end of the year. Ironically, one of the most bullish things possible happened at the end of the year: O3. While the world was focused on scaling laws, there are still many dimensions of improvement ahead of us, and O3 gave us a taste of the future.I believe that there is no practical limit to the improvements of models other than economics, and I think that will be the real constraint in the future. It is reasonable that if we spent infinite dollars on a model, it would be improved. The problem is whether infinite dollars would make sense for a business. That is going to be the key question for 2025. How do the economics of AI make this work? One of the core assumptions about the internet has just been broken. Marginal costs now exist again, meaning that most hyperscalers will become increasingly capital-intensive.The era of aggregation theory is behind us, and AI is again making technology expensive. This relation of increased cost from increased consumption is anti-internet era thinking. And this will be the big problem that will be reckoned with this year. Hyperscaler’s business models are mainly underpinned by the marginal cost being zero. So, as long as you set up the infrastructure and fill an internet-scale product with users, you can make money.This era will soon be over, and the future will be much weirder and more compute-intensive. Looking back on the 2010s, we will probably consider them a naive time in the long arc of technology. One of our fundamental assumptions about this period is unraveling. This will be the single most significant change in the technology landscape going forward.I discussed this post onthe first Sharp Tech episode of the year, but haven’t written about it on Stratechery as I hadn’t fully formed my thoughts on it. There is definitely validity to the point, andI think it’s a big threat to the SaaS model in particular.On the flip side, non-reasoning LLMs are still great at producing content, and they also get smaller by distilling the output of reasoning models; one of the big R1 takeaways is that you can infuse reasoning into normal LLMs. More than that, though, you can also use them to generate massive amounts of synthetic data that simply teach the normal LLMs the answer to an effectively infinite number of questions.And, of course, reasoning could simply end up being effectively free. One announcement I should have added to yesterday’s post was Google’s announcement ofGemini 2.0 Flash Thinking. It appears to be competitive with R1:The China is crushing US rhetoric totally forgets about Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking.Likely cheaper, longer context and better on reasoning.We're still early in the AI race.pic.twitter.com/X42VKTbGFZ— Deedy (@deedydas)January 26, 2025We don’t know the prices yet, to be clear — the prices in that tweet are for the 1.5 model. Google, however, is a company that actually cares about and has invested in infrastructure (and perhaps doesn’t see the need for the software-type of margins OpenAI and Anthropic have allegedly been earning on their API), so I wouldn’t be surprised if they are very competitive. Of course they’re not open source, but again R1 is: I can get all of the thinking I want locally for free.This isn’t necessarily dispositive in terms of the long-term prospects for Aggregation Theory, but given that the entire history of technology has been defined by processing speed simultaneously increasing even as it decreases in price, the burden of proof is probably on those who say that zero marginal costs are an aberration.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.05: The World Discovers DeepSeekDateFriday, January 31, 2025DeepSeek FAQDateMonday, January 27, 20252025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025←DeepSeek FAQAsianometry on Japan’s Chemical Dominance, Stratechery Updates, and Chinese New Year Schedule Changes→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air The OpenAI Critique, Comparative Advantage and Infrastructure, Aggregation Theory and Cheap AITuesday, January 28, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew basically gave me a dry run of theDeepSeek FAQ. Onlast Thursday’s episode, we also discussedR1, along with Stargate and the slow divorce of Microsoft and OpenAI.U.S. tech stocks, meanwhile, ended the day in a fairly understandable place: chips and datacenter stocks were down strongly, Google and Microsoft were slightly down, while Facebook, Apple, and Amazon were up; this ended up being largely in line with my prognostication in yesterday’s Article, as investors wrapped their minds around the implications of cheap AI.On to the Update, which is very much a follow-up and expansion to yesterday’s Article.The OpenAI CritiqueI wrote in yesterday’s conclusion:That leaves America, and a choice we have to make. We could, for very logical reasons, double down on defensive measures, like massively expanding the chip ban and imposing a permission-based regulatory regime on chips and semiconductor equipment that mirrors the E.U.’s approach to tech; alternatively, we could realize that we have real competition, and actually give ourself permission to compete. Stop wringing our hands, stop campaigning for regulations — indeed, go the other way, and cut out all of the cruft in our companies that has nothing to do with winning. If we choose to compete we can still win, and, if we do, we will have a Chinese company to thank.Some folks read this as being simply about government regulations — and I did specifically mention thePresident Biden executive order on AI, whichPresident Trump has already repealed— but that misses the deeper point I was driving at.One of the intense frustrations of the last few years of AI debate has been themotte-and-baileyaspect of the safety question. I understand and grant the very real concerns about AI safety — that’s the “motte” in the safety argument — but the way that AI safety has too often manifested has been through the imposition of various cultural mores that roughly align with San Francisco politics — that’s the “bailey”. Indeed, if you look again at the excerpt fromOpenAI’s GPT-2 announcementthat I linked to yesterday, it’s right there in the first sentence:Due to concerns about large language models being used to generate deceptive, biased, or abusive language at scale, we are only releasing a much smaller version of GPT-2 along with sampling code. We are not releasing the dataset, training code, or GPT-2 model weights…We are aware that some researchers have the technical capacity to reproduce and open source our results. We believe our release strategy limits the initial set of organizations who may choose to do this, and gives the AI community more time to have a discussion about the implications of such systems.First off, “deceptive, biased, or abusive language” is not a human extinction level danger. Second, who decides what is “deceptive, biased, or abusive”? And third, whatever your position on these questions, I think we can all agree that a tremendous amount of time and effort has been devoted to arguing about these cultural war issues — and implementing one side or the other of them — and by definition that time has an opportunity cost! More broadly, I think it is completely valid to argue that a lot of time and energy in tech has been devoted to many things other than actual tech, and that the justification for that lack of focus has been rooted in an assumption that the U.S. generally and Big Tech companies specifically have unassailable advantages. That’s not the case!OpenAI is not, to be fair, what we would consider “Big Tech”, but that makes their own self-assuredness in their position that much more striking. Go back to the release ofo1, andtheir blog post at the time:We believe that a hidden chain of thought presents a unique opportunity for monitoring models. Assuming it is faithful and legible, the hidden chain of thought allows us to “read the mind” of the model and understand its thought process. For example, in the future we may wish to monitor the chain of thought for signs of manipulating the user. However, for this to work the model must have freedom to express its thoughts in unaltered form, so we cannot train any policy compliance or user preferences onto the chain of thought. We also do not want to make an unaligned chain of thought directly visible to users.Therefore, after weighing multiple factors including user experience, competitive advantage, and the option to pursue the chain of thought monitoring, we have decided not to show the raw chains of thought to users. We acknowledge this decision has disadvantages. We strive to partially make up for it by teaching the model to reproduce any useful ideas from the chain of thought in the answer. For theo1model series we show a model-generated summary of the chain of thought.R1, which does show its chain of though, has shown that this was a mistake.Exposed chain-of-thought teaches users how to do better prompting, because they can see exactly where the AI gets confused. It’s a superior product experience for this reason alone.Exposed chain-of-thought increases trust in the model, because you gain an understanding of how it is arriving at the answer.Exposed chain-of-thought is just cool and endearing. One thing that was interesting with the normie discovery ofR1is how delightful they found the experience, and keep in mind, most of these folks are probably on the free tier of ChatGPT, which means they didn’t even have access too1at all (but theywill now).I did understand OpenAI’s competitive concerns, but the existence ofR1has shown that locking down chain-of-thought perhaps didn’t matter so much in the end; more generally, the consideration of competitive concerns gets back to my overall critique, that the U.S. approach to competition is too rooted in stopping and blocking would-be competitors instead of out-innovating them. And, of course, there is all that language about “policy compliance” and the horror of the model having “freedom to express its thoughts in unadultered form”. Every single bit of it is a distraction, and the distractions have to go — particularly if you are worried about the actual legitimate safety concerns.Comparative Advantage and InfrastructureThere are two tweets I want to highlight.The first is from Yishan Wong:I think the Deepseek moment is not really the Sputnik moment, but more like the Google moment.If anyone was around in ~2004, you'll know what I mean, but more on that later.I think everyone is over-rotated on this because Deepseek came out of China. Let me try to un-rotate…— Yishan (@yishan)January 28, 2025It’s a long tweet, but I encourage you to read the whole thing; here is the key segment for purposes of this Update:Sputnik showed that the Soviets could do something the US couldn’t (“a new fearsome power”). They didn’t subsequently publish all the technical details and half the blueprints. They only showed that it could be done. With Deepseek, if I recall correctly, a lab in Berkeley read their paper and duplicated the claimed results on a small scale within a day.That’s why I say it’s like the Google moment in 2004. Google filed its S-1 in 2004, and revealed to the world that they had built the largest supercomputer cluster by using distributed algorithms to network together commodity computers at the best performance-per-dollar point on the cost curve. This was in contrast to every other tech company, who at that time just bought what were essentially larger and larger mainframes, always at the most expensive leading edge of the cost curve.Again,read the whole tweet, but a few points:It’s hard to overstate what a favor DeepSeek did to basically everyone by open-sourcing their model and explaining exactly how they accomplished what they did. They could have — and from a geopolitical perspective, arguably should have — kept all of their progress secret, even as China built drastically more efficient AI infrastructure than the U.S., potentially erasing the U.S.’s silicon advantage.Google’s innovation in infrastructure is truly incredible and still underrated. And, it should be noted,they are still by far the best in terms of AI infrastructure.The “Google moment” that Yishan references did end up being the end-of-the-line for specialized server makers like Sun, and significantly capped the upside for other dedicated hardware vendors who now had to compete with software-defined commodity hardware. More generally, cheap hardware meantthe conservation of attractive profitsdrove the key point of integration up the stack, to the app layer in Google’s case, and scaled cloud services for AWS.The second tweet is from @roon, who works at OpenAI:this is not the right lessonthere’s an opportunity cost to researcher time and if they’re spending it micro optimizing PTX to make the best of limited comms that’s something else they weren’t doingnerfing some aspect of the hardware is never a benefithttps://t.co/tzsPxT0EX1— roon (@tszzl)January 27, 2025The most dangerous lure about thinking in terms of comparative advantage is how time and learning curves lead you to consequences that you never considered when you made your decision. I wrote about exactly this last year inA Chance to Build; I started the post by describing how U.S. semiconductor companies kicked off outsourcing to Asia, and tied that to the fact that Apple can’t make an iPhone in the U.S.:I think that Jobs had cause-and-effect backwards: there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineers in the U.S. because there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineering jobs to be filled. That is because the structure of the world economy — choices made starting with Bretton Woods in particular, and cemented by the removal of tariffs over time — made them nonviable. Say what you will about the viability or wisdom of Trump’s tariffs, the motivation — to undo eighty years of structural changes — is pretty straightforward!The other thing about Jobs’ answer is how ultimately self-serving it was. This is not to say it was wrong: Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.Connect this to Google: what if Google had taken @roon’s advice, and not wasted the time of valuable “researchers” in transforming how data centers are built? Perhaps they could have waited until Alibaba did it a decade later, and rented capacity? And, in the meantime, they would have been a far smaller and less significant company specifically, and the entire U.S. tech industry would be similarly stunted generally.To be fair to @roon, he does seem to be talking narrowly about the specific optimizations that DeepSeek made to overcome the H800’s nerfed memory bandwidth, but I think the critique holds more generally: U.S. tech companies, including OpenAI, have clearly in retrospect been Nvidia’s willing suckers, happy to pay for more capacity instead of wringing out their own; how many years would it have taken them to discover DeepSeek’s breakthroughs independently? No, infrastructure optimization isn’t sexy, but it matters.Indeed, I’d go further: every person in AI is echoingSatya Nadella’s invocation of Jevons paradox, i.e. the idea that cheaper computing drives  more usage, but the reason you know that is cope — even if it’s true! — is because the revealed preference of every tech company was that they saw more value in one more researcher than in one more infrastructure engineer. Which again, is why every single person who actually believes in AI and Jevons paradox should be sending thank you notes to DeepSeek.Aggregation Theory and Cheap AIBack in January Doug O’Laughlin wrote his2025 AI & Semiconductor Outlookon Fabricated Knowledge:I will admit. After two incredible years of the AI trade, I was worried that it would become long in the tooth at the end of the year. Ironically, one of the most bullish things possible happened at the end of the year: O3. While the world was focused on scaling laws, there are still many dimensions of improvement ahead of us, and O3 gave us a taste of the future.I believe that there is no practical limit to the improvements of models other than economics, and I think that will be the real constraint in the future. It is reasonable that if we spent infinite dollars on a model, it would be improved. The problem is whether infinite dollars would make sense for a business. That is going to be the key question for 2025. How do the economics of AI make this work? One of the core assumptions about the internet has just been broken. Marginal costs now exist again, meaning that most hyperscalers will become increasingly capital-intensive.The era of aggregation theory is behind us, and AI is again making technology expensive. This relation of increased cost from increased consumption is anti-internet era thinking. And this will be the big problem that will be reckoned with this year. Hyperscaler’s business models are mainly underpinned by the marginal cost being zero. So, as long as you set up the infrastructure and fill an internet-scale product with users, you can make money.This era will soon be over, and the future will be much weirder and more compute-intensive. Looking back on the 2010s, we will probably consider them a naive time in the long arc of technology. One of our fundamental assumptions about this period is unraveling. This will be the single most significant change in the technology landscape going forward.I discussed this post onthe first Sharp Tech episode of the year, but haven’t written about it on Stratechery as I hadn’t fully formed my thoughts on it. There is definitely validity to the point, andI think it’s a big threat to the SaaS model in particular.On the flip side, non-reasoning LLMs are still great at producing content, and they also get smaller by distilling the output of reasoning models; one of the big R1 takeaways is that you can infuse reasoning into normal LLMs. More than that, though, you can also use them to generate massive amounts of synthetic data that simply teach the normal LLMs the answer to an effectively infinite number of questions.And, of course, reasoning could simply end up being effectively free. One announcement I should have added to yesterday’s post was Google’s announcement ofGemini 2.0 Flash Thinking. It appears to be competitive with R1:The China is crushing US rhetoric totally forgets about Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking.Likely cheaper, longer context and better on reasoning.We're still early in the AI race.pic.twitter.com/X42VKTbGFZ— Deedy (@deedydas)January 26, 2025We don’t know the prices yet, to be clear — the prices in that tweet are for the 1.5 model. Google, however, is a company that actually cares about and has invested in infrastructure (and perhaps doesn’t see the need for the software-type of margins OpenAI and Anthropic have allegedly been earning on their API), so I wouldn’t be surprised if they are very competitive. Of course they’re not open source, but again R1 is: I can get all of the thinking I want locally for free.This isn’t necessarily dispositive in terms of the long-term prospects for Aggregation Theory, but given that the entire history of technology has been defined by processing speed simultaneously increasing even as it decreases in price, the burden of proof is probably on those who say that zero marginal costs are an aberration.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.05: The World Discovers DeepSeekDateFriday, January 31, 2025DeepSeek FAQDateMonday, January 27, 20252025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025←DeepSeek FAQAsianometry on Japan’s Chemical Dominance, Stratechery Updates, and Chinese New Year Schedule Changes→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All The OpenAI Critique, Comparative Advantage and Infrastructure, Aggregation Theory and Cheap AITuesday, January 28, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew basically gave me a dry run of theDeepSeek FAQ. Onlast Thursday’s episode, we also discussedR1, along with Stargate and the slow divorce of Microsoft and OpenAI.U.S. tech stocks, meanwhile, ended the day in a fairly understandable place: chips and datacenter stocks were down strongly, Google and Microsoft were slightly down, while Facebook, Apple, and Amazon were up; this ended up being largely in line with my prognostication in yesterday’s Article, as investors wrapped their minds around the implications of cheap AI.On to the Update, which is very much a follow-up and expansion to yesterday’s Article.The OpenAI CritiqueI wrote in yesterday’s conclusion:That leaves America, and a choice we have to make. We could, for very logical reasons, double down on defensive measures, like massively expanding the chip ban and imposing a permission-based regulatory regime on chips and semiconductor equipment that mirrors the E.U.’s approach to tech; alternatively, we could realize that we have real competition, and actually give ourself permission to compete. Stop wringing our hands, stop campaigning for regulations — indeed, go the other way, and cut out all of the cruft in our companies that has nothing to do with winning. If we choose to compete we can still win, and, if we do, we will have a Chinese company to thank.Some folks read this as being simply about government regulations — and I did specifically mention thePresident Biden executive order on AI, whichPresident Trump has already repealed— but that misses the deeper point I was driving at.One of the intense frustrations of the last few years of AI debate has been themotte-and-baileyaspect of the safety question. I understand and grant the very real concerns about AI safety — that’s the “motte” in the safety argument — but the way that AI safety has too often manifested has been through the imposition of various cultural mores that roughly align with San Francisco politics — that’s the “bailey”. Indeed, if you look again at the excerpt fromOpenAI’s GPT-2 announcementthat I linked to yesterday, it’s right there in the first sentence:Due to concerns about large language models being used to generate deceptive, biased, or abusive language at scale, we are only releasing a much smaller version of GPT-2 along with sampling code. We are not releasing the dataset, training code, or GPT-2 model weights…We are aware that some researchers have the technical capacity to reproduce and open source our results. We believe our release strategy limits the initial set of organizations who may choose to do this, and gives the AI community more time to have a discussion about the implications of such systems.First off, “deceptive, biased, or abusive language” is not a human extinction level danger. Second, who decides what is “deceptive, biased, or abusive”? And third, whatever your position on these questions, I think we can all agree that a tremendous amount of time and effort has been devoted to arguing about these cultural war issues — and implementing one side or the other of them — and by definition that time has an opportunity cost! More broadly, I think it is completely valid to argue that a lot of time and energy in tech has been devoted to many things other than actual tech, and that the justification for that lack of focus has been rooted in an assumption that the U.S. generally and Big Tech companies specifically have unassailable advantages. That’s not the case!OpenAI is not, to be fair, what we would consider “Big Tech”, but that makes their own self-assuredness in their position that much more striking. Go back to the release ofo1, andtheir blog post at the time:We believe that a hidden chain of thought presents a unique opportunity for monitoring models. Assuming it is faithful and legible, the hidden chain of thought allows us to “read the mind” of the model and understand its thought process. For example, in the future we may wish to monitor the chain of thought for signs of manipulating the user. However, for this to work the model must have freedom to express its thoughts in unaltered form, so we cannot train any policy compliance or user preferences onto the chain of thought. We also do not want to make an unaligned chain of thought directly visible to users.Therefore, after weighing multiple factors including user experience, competitive advantage, and the option to pursue the chain of thought monitoring, we have decided not to show the raw chains of thought to users. We acknowledge this decision has disadvantages. We strive to partially make up for it by teaching the model to reproduce any useful ideas from the chain of thought in the answer. For theo1model series we show a model-generated summary of the chain of thought.R1, which does show its chain of though, has shown that this was a mistake.Exposed chain-of-thought teaches users how to do better prompting, because they can see exactly where the AI gets confused. It’s a superior product experience for this reason alone.Exposed chain-of-thought increases trust in the model, because you gain an understanding of how it is arriving at the answer.Exposed chain-of-thought is just cool and endearing. One thing that was interesting with the normie discovery ofR1is how delightful they found the experience, and keep in mind, most of these folks are probably on the free tier of ChatGPT, which means they didn’t even have access too1at all (but theywill now).I did understand OpenAI’s competitive concerns, but the existence ofR1has shown that locking down chain-of-thought perhaps didn’t matter so much in the end; more generally, the consideration of competitive concerns gets back to my overall critique, that the U.S. approach to competition is too rooted in stopping and blocking would-be competitors instead of out-innovating them. And, of course, there is all that language about “policy compliance” and the horror of the model having “freedom to express its thoughts in unadultered form”. Every single bit of it is a distraction, and the distractions have to go — particularly if you are worried about the actual legitimate safety concerns.Comparative Advantage and InfrastructureThere are two tweets I want to highlight.The first is from Yishan Wong:I think the Deepseek moment is not really the Sputnik moment, but more like the Google moment.If anyone was around in ~2004, you'll know what I mean, but more on that later.I think everyone is over-rotated on this because Deepseek came out of China. Let me try to un-rotate…— Yishan (@yishan)January 28, 2025It’s a long tweet, but I encourage you to read the whole thing; here is the key segment for purposes of this Update:Sputnik showed that the Soviets could do something the US couldn’t (“a new fearsome power”). They didn’t subsequently publish all the technical details and half the blueprints. They only showed that it could be done. With Deepseek, if I recall correctly, a lab in Berkeley read their paper and duplicated the claimed results on a small scale within a day.That’s why I say it’s like the Google moment in 2004. Google filed its S-1 in 2004, and revealed to the world that they had built the largest supercomputer cluster by using distributed algorithms to network together commodity computers at the best performance-per-dollar point on the cost curve. This was in contrast to every other tech company, who at that time just bought what were essentially larger and larger mainframes, always at the most expensive leading edge of the cost curve.Again,read the whole tweet, but a few points:It’s hard to overstate what a favor DeepSeek did to basically everyone by open-sourcing their model and explaining exactly how they accomplished what they did. They could have — and from a geopolitical perspective, arguably should have — kept all of their progress secret, even as China built drastically more efficient AI infrastructure than the U.S., potentially erasing the U.S.’s silicon advantage.Google’s innovation in infrastructure is truly incredible and still underrated. And, it should be noted,they are still by far the best in terms of AI infrastructure.The “Google moment” that Yishan references did end up being the end-of-the-line for specialized server makers like Sun, and significantly capped the upside for other dedicated hardware vendors who now had to compete with software-defined commodity hardware. More generally, cheap hardware meantthe conservation of attractive profitsdrove the key point of integration up the stack, to the app layer in Google’s case, and scaled cloud services for AWS.The second tweet is from @roon, who works at OpenAI:this is not the right lessonthere’s an opportunity cost to researcher time and if they’re spending it micro optimizing PTX to make the best of limited comms that’s something else they weren’t doingnerfing some aspect of the hardware is never a benefithttps://t.co/tzsPxT0EX1— roon (@tszzl)January 27, 2025The most dangerous lure about thinking in terms of comparative advantage is how time and learning curves lead you to consequences that you never considered when you made your decision. I wrote about exactly this last year inA Chance to Build; I started the post by describing how U.S. semiconductor companies kicked off outsourcing to Asia, and tied that to the fact that Apple can’t make an iPhone in the U.S.:I think that Jobs had cause-and-effect backwards: there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineers in the U.S. because there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineering jobs to be filled. That is because the structure of the world economy — choices made starting with Bretton Woods in particular, and cemented by the removal of tariffs over time — made them nonviable. Say what you will about the viability or wisdom of Trump’s tariffs, the motivation — to undo eighty years of structural changes — is pretty straightforward!The other thing about Jobs’ answer is how ultimately self-serving it was. This is not to say it was wrong: Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.Connect this to Google: what if Google had taken @roon’s advice, and not wasted the time of valuable “researchers” in transforming how data centers are built? Perhaps they could have waited until Alibaba did it a decade later, and rented capacity? And, in the meantime, they would have been a far smaller and less significant company specifically, and the entire U.S. tech industry would be similarly stunted generally.To be fair to @roon, he does seem to be talking narrowly about the specific optimizations that DeepSeek made to overcome the H800’s nerfed memory bandwidth, but I think the critique holds more generally: U.S. tech companies, including OpenAI, have clearly in retrospect been Nvidia’s willing suckers, happy to pay for more capacity instead of wringing out their own; how many years would it have taken them to discover DeepSeek’s breakthroughs independently? No, infrastructure optimization isn’t sexy, but it matters.Indeed, I’d go further: every person in AI is echoingSatya Nadella’s invocation of Jevons paradox, i.e. the idea that cheaper computing drives  more usage, but the reason you know that is cope — even if it’s true! — is because the revealed preference of every tech company was that they saw more value in one more researcher than in one more infrastructure engineer. Which again, is why every single person who actually believes in AI and Jevons paradox should be sending thank you notes to DeepSeek.Aggregation Theory and Cheap AIBack in January Doug O’Laughlin wrote his2025 AI & Semiconductor Outlookon Fabricated Knowledge:I will admit. After two incredible years of the AI trade, I was worried that it would become long in the tooth at the end of the year. Ironically, one of the most bullish things possible happened at the end of the year: O3. While the world was focused on scaling laws, there are still many dimensions of improvement ahead of us, and O3 gave us a taste of the future.I believe that there is no practical limit to the improvements of models other than economics, and I think that will be the real constraint in the future. It is reasonable that if we spent infinite dollars on a model, it would be improved. The problem is whether infinite dollars would make sense for a business. That is going to be the key question for 2025. How do the economics of AI make this work? One of the core assumptions about the internet has just been broken. Marginal costs now exist again, meaning that most hyperscalers will become increasingly capital-intensive.The era of aggregation theory is behind us, and AI is again making technology expensive. This relation of increased cost from increased consumption is anti-internet era thinking. And this will be the big problem that will be reckoned with this year. Hyperscaler’s business models are mainly underpinned by the marginal cost being zero. So, as long as you set up the infrastructure and fill an internet-scale product with users, you can make money.This era will soon be over, and the future will be much weirder and more compute-intensive. Looking back on the 2010s, we will probably consider them a naive time in the long arc of technology. One of our fundamental assumptions about this period is unraveling. This will be the single most significant change in the technology landscape going forward.I discussed this post onthe first Sharp Tech episode of the year, but haven’t written about it on Stratechery as I hadn’t fully formed my thoughts on it. There is definitely validity to the point, andI think it’s a big threat to the SaaS model in particular.On the flip side, non-reasoning LLMs are still great at producing content, and they also get smaller by distilling the output of reasoning models; one of the big R1 takeaways is that you can infuse reasoning into normal LLMs. More than that, though, you can also use them to generate massive amounts of synthetic data that simply teach the normal LLMs the answer to an effectively infinite number of questions.And, of course, reasoning could simply end up being effectively free. One announcement I should have added to yesterday’s post was Google’s announcement ofGemini 2.0 Flash Thinking. It appears to be competitive with R1:The China is crushing US rhetoric totally forgets about Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking.Likely cheaper, longer context and better on reasoning.We're still early in the AI race.pic.twitter.com/X42VKTbGFZ— Deedy (@deedydas)January 26, 2025We don’t know the prices yet, to be clear — the prices in that tweet are for the 1.5 model. Google, however, is a company that actually cares about and has invested in infrastructure (and perhaps doesn’t see the need for the software-type of margins OpenAI and Anthropic have allegedly been earning on their API), so I wouldn’t be surprised if they are very competitive. Of course they’re not open source, but again R1 is: I can get all of the thinking I want locally for free.This isn’t necessarily dispositive in terms of the long-term prospects for Aggregation Theory, but given that the entire history of technology has been defined by processing speed simultaneously increasing even as it decreases in price, the burden of proof is probably on those who say that zero marginal costs are an aberration.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.05: The World Discovers DeepSeekDateFriday, January 31, 2025DeepSeek FAQDateMonday, January 27, 20252025.04: OpenAI, Microsoft and The State of AIDateFriday, January 24, 2025←DeepSeek FAQAsianometry on Japan’s Chemical Dominance, Stratechery Updates, and Chinese New Year Schedule Changes→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onyesterday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew basically gave me a dry run of theDeepSeek FAQ. Onlast Thursday’s episode, we also discussedR1, along with Stargate and the slow divorce of Microsoft and OpenAI.U.S. tech stocks, meanwhile, ended the day in a fairly understandable place: chips and datacenter stocks were down strongly, Google and Microsoft were slightly down, while Facebook, Apple, and Amazon were up; this ended up being largely in line with my prognostication in yesterday’s Article, as investors wrapped their minds around the implications of cheap AI.On to the Update, which is very much a follow-up and expansion to yesterday’s Article.The OpenAI CritiqueI wrote in yesterday’s conclusion:That leaves America, and a choice we have to make. We could, for very logical reasons, double down on defensive measures, like massively expanding the chip ban and imposing a permission-based regulatory regime on chips and semiconductor equipment that mirrors the E.U.’s approach to tech; alternatively, we could realize that we have real competition, and actually give ourself permission to compete. Stop wringing our hands, stop campaigning for regulations — indeed, go the other way, and cut out all of the cruft in our companies that has nothing to do with winning. If we choose to compete we can still win, and, if we do, we will have a Chinese company to thank.Some folks read this as being simply about government regulations — and I did specifically mention thePresident Biden executive order on AI, whichPresident Trump has already repealed— but that misses the deeper point I was driving at.One of the intense frustrations of the last few years of AI debate has been themotte-and-baileyaspect of the safety question. I understand and grant the very real concerns about AI safety — that’s the “motte” in the safety argument — but the way that AI safety has too often manifested has been through the imposition of various cultural mores that roughly align with San Francisco politics — that’s the “bailey”. Indeed, if you look again at the excerpt fromOpenAI’s GPT-2 announcementthat I linked to yesterday, it’s right there in the first sentence:Due to concerns about large language models being used to generate deceptive, biased, or abusive language at scale, we are only releasing a much smaller version of GPT-2 along with sampling code. We are not releasing the dataset, training code, or GPT-2 model weights…We are aware that some researchers have the technical capacity to reproduce and open source our results. We believe our release strategy limits the initial set of organizations who may choose to do this, and gives the AI community more time to have a discussion about the implications of such systems.First off, “deceptive, biased, or abusive language” is not a human extinction level danger. Second, who decides what is “deceptive, biased, or abusive”? And third, whatever your position on these questions, I think we can all agree that a tremendous amount of time and effort has been devoted to arguing about these cultural war issues — and implementing one side or the other of them — and by definition that time has an opportunity cost! More broadly, I think it is completely valid to argue that a lot of time and energy in tech has been devoted to many things other than actual tech, and that the justification for that lack of focus has been rooted in an assumption that the U.S. generally and Big Tech companies specifically have unassailable advantages. That’s not the case!OpenAI is not, to be fair, what we would consider “Big Tech”, but that makes their own self-assuredness in their position that much more striking. Go back to the release ofo1, andtheir blog post at the time:We believe that a hidden chain of thought presents a unique opportunity for monitoring models. Assuming it is faithful and legible, the hidden chain of thought allows us to “read the mind” of the model and understand its thought process. For example, in the future we may wish to monitor the chain of thought for signs of manipulating the user. However, for this to work the model must have freedom to express its thoughts in unaltered form, so we cannot train any policy compliance or user preferences onto the chain of thought. We also do not want to make an unaligned chain of thought directly visible to users.Therefore, after weighing multiple factors including user experience, competitive advantage, and the option to pursue the chain of thought monitoring, we have decided not to show the raw chains of thought to users. We acknowledge this decision has disadvantages. We strive to partially make up for it by teaching the model to reproduce any useful ideas from the chain of thought in the answer. For theo1model series we show a model-generated summary of the chain of thought.R1, which does show its chain of though, has shown that this was a mistake.Exposed chain-of-thought teaches users how to do better prompting, because they can see exactly where the AI gets confused. It’s a superior product experience for this reason alone.Exposed chain-of-thought increases trust in the model, because you gain an understanding of how it is arriving at the answer.Exposed chain-of-thought is just cool and endearing. One thing that was interesting with the normie discovery ofR1is how delightful they found the experience, and keep in mind, most of these folks are probably on the free tier of ChatGPT, which means they didn’t even have access too1at all (but theywill now).I did understand OpenAI’s competitive concerns, but the existence ofR1has shown that locking down chain-of-thought perhaps didn’t matter so much in the end; more generally, the consideration of competitive concerns gets back to my overall critique, that the U.S. approach to competition is too rooted in stopping and blocking would-be competitors instead of out-innovating them. And, of course, there is all that language about “policy compliance” and the horror of the model having “freedom to express its thoughts in unadultered form”. Every single bit of it is a distraction, and the distractions have to go — particularly if you are worried about the actual legitimate safety concerns.Comparative Advantage and InfrastructureThere are two tweets I want to highlight.The first is from Yishan Wong:I think the Deepseek moment is not really the Sputnik moment, but more like the Google moment.If anyone was around in ~2004, you'll know what I mean, but more on that later.I think everyone is over-rotated on this because Deepseek came out of China. Let me try to un-rotate…— Yishan (@yishan)January 28, 2025It’s a long tweet, but I encourage you to read the whole thing; here is the key segment for purposes of this Update:Sputnik showed that the Soviets could do something the US couldn’t (“a new fearsome power”). They didn’t subsequently publish all the technical details and half the blueprints. They only showed that it could be done. With Deepseek, if I recall correctly, a lab in Berkeley read their paper and duplicated the claimed results on a small scale within a day.That’s why I say it’s like the Google moment in 2004. Google filed its S-1 in 2004, and revealed to the world that they had built the largest supercomputer cluster by using distributed algorithms to network together commodity computers at the best performance-per-dollar point on the cost curve. This was in contrast to every other tech company, who at that time just bought what were essentially larger and larger mainframes, always at the most expensive leading edge of the cost curve.Again,read the whole tweet, but a few points:It’s hard to overstate what a favor DeepSeek did to basically everyone by open-sourcing their model and explaining exactly how they accomplished what they did. They could have — and from a geopolitical perspective, arguably should have — kept all of their progress secret, even as China built drastically more efficient AI infrastructure than the U.S., potentially erasing the U.S.’s silicon advantage.Google’s innovation in infrastructure is truly incredible and still underrated. And, it should be noted,they are still by far the best in terms of AI infrastructure.The “Google moment” that Yishan references did end up being the end-of-the-line for specialized server makers like Sun, and significantly capped the upside for other dedicated hardware vendors who now had to compete with software-defined commodity hardware. More generally, cheap hardware meantthe conservation of attractive profitsdrove the key point of integration up the stack, to the app layer in Google’s case, and scaled cloud services for AWS.The second tweet is from @roon, who works at OpenAI:this is not the right lessonthere’s an opportunity cost to researcher time and if they’re spending it micro optimizing PTX to make the best of limited comms that’s something else they weren’t doingnerfing some aspect of the hardware is never a benefithttps://t.co/tzsPxT0EX1— roon (@tszzl)January 27, 2025The most dangerous lure about thinking in terms of comparative advantage is how time and learning curves lead you to consequences that you never considered when you made your decision. I wrote about exactly this last year inA Chance to Build; I started the post by describing how U.S. semiconductor companies kicked off outsourcing to Asia, and tied that to the fact that Apple can’t make an iPhone in the U.S.:I think that Jobs had cause-and-effect backwards: there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineers in the U.S. because there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineering jobs to be filled. That is because the structure of the world economy — choices made starting with Bretton Woods in particular, and cemented by the removal of tariffs over time — made them nonviable. Say what you will about the viability or wisdom of Trump’s tariffs, the motivation — to undo eighty years of structural changes — is pretty straightforward!The other thing about Jobs’ answer is how ultimately self-serving it was. This is not to say it was wrong: Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all.Connect this to Google: what if Google had taken @roon’s advice, and not wasted the time of valuable “researchers” in transforming how data centers are built? Perhaps they could have waited until Alibaba did it a decade later, and rented capacity? And, in the meantime, they would have been a far smaller and less significant company specifically, and the entire U.S. tech industry would be similarly stunted generally.To be fair to @roon, he does seem to be talking narrowly about the specific optimizations that DeepSeek made to overcome the H800’s nerfed memory bandwidth, but I think the critique holds more generally: U.S. tech companies, including OpenAI, have clearly in retrospect been Nvidia’s willing suckers, happy to pay for more capacity instead of wringing out their own; how many years would it have taken them to discover DeepSeek’s breakthroughs independently? No, infrastructure optimization isn’t sexy, but it matters.Indeed, I’d go further: every person in AI is echoingSatya Nadella’s invocation of Jevons paradox, i.e. the idea that cheaper computing drives  more usage, but the reason you know that is cope — even if it’s true! — is because the revealed preference of every tech company was that they saw more value in one more researcher than in one more infrastructure engineer. Which again, is why every single person who actually believes in AI and Jevons paradox should be sending thank you notes to DeepSeek.Aggregation Theory and Cheap AIBack in January Doug O’Laughlin wrote his2025 AI & Semiconductor Outlookon Fabricated Knowledge:I will admit. After two incredible years of the AI trade, I was worried that it would become long in the tooth at the end of the year. Ironically, one of the most bullish things possible happened at the end of the year: O3. While the world was focused on scaling laws, there are still many dimensions of improvement ahead of us, and O3 gave us a taste of the future.I believe that there is no practical limit to the improvements of models other than economics, and I think that will be the real constraint in the future. It is reasonable that if we spent infinite dollars on a model, it would be improved. The problem is whether infinite dollars would make sense for a business. That is going to be the key question for 2025. How do the economics of AI make this work? One of the core assumptions about the internet has just been broken. Marginal costs now exist again, meaning that most hyperscalers will become increasingly capital-intensive.The era of aggregation theory is behind us, and AI is again making technology expensive. This relation of increased cost from increased consumption is anti-internet era thinking. And this will be the big problem that will be reckoned with this year. Hyperscaler’s business models are mainly underpinned by the marginal cost being zero. So, as long as you set up the infrastructure and fill an internet-scale product with users, you can make money.This era will soon be over, and the future will be much weirder and more compute-intensive. Looking back on the 2010s, we will probably consider them a naive time in the long arc of technology. One of our fundamental assumptions about this period is unraveling. This will be the single most significant change in the technology landscape going forward.I discussed this post onthe first Sharp Tech episode of the year, but haven’t written about it on Stratechery as I hadn’t fully formed my thoughts on it. There is definitely validity to the point, andI think it’s a big threat to the SaaS model in particular.On the flip side, non-reasoning LLMs are still great at producing content, and they also get smaller by distilling the output of reasoning models; one of the big R1 takeaways is that you can infuse reasoning into normal LLMs. More than that, though, you can also use them to generate massive amounts of synthetic data that simply teach the normal LLMs the answer to an effectively infinite number of questions.And, of course, reasoning could simply end up being effectively free. One announcement I should have added to yesterday’s post was Google’s announcement ofGemini 2.0 Flash Thinking. It appears to be competitive with R1:The China is crushing US rhetoric totally forgets about Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking.Likely cheaper, longer context and better on reasoning.We're still early in the AI race.pic.twitter.com/X42VKTbGFZ— Deedy (@deedydas)January 26, 2025We don’t know the prices yet, to be clear — the prices in that tweet are for the 1.5 model. Google, however, is a company that actually cares about and has invested in infrastructure (and perhaps doesn’t see the need for the software-type of margins OpenAI and Anthropic have allegedly been earning on their API), so I wouldn’t be surprised if they are very competitive. Of course they’re not open source, but again R1 is: I can get all of the thinking I want locally for free.This isn’t necessarily dispositive in terms of the long-term prospects for Aggregation Theory, but given that the entire history of technology has been defined by processing speed simultaneously increasing even as it decreases in price, the burden of proof is probably on those who say that zero marginal costs are an aberration.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Onyesterday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew basically gave me a dry run of theDeepSeek FAQ. Onlast Thursday’s episode, we also discussedR1, along with Stargate and the slow divorce of Microsoft and OpenAI. U.S. tech stocks, meanwhile, ended the day in a fairly understandable place: chips and datacenter stocks were down strongly, Google and Microsoft were slightly down, while Facebook, Apple, and Amazon were up; this ended up being largely in line with my prognostication in yesterday’s Article, as investors wrapped their minds around the implications of cheap AI. That leaves America, and a choice we have to make. We could, for very logical reasons, double down on defensive measures, like massively expanding the chip ban and imposing a permission-based regulatory regime on chips and semiconductor equipment that mirrors the E.U.’s approach to tech; alternatively, we could realize that we have real competition, and actually give ourself permission to compete. Stop wringing our hands, stop campaigning for regulations — indeed, go the other way, and cut out all of the cruft in our companies that has nothing to do with winning. If we choose to compete we can still win, and, if we do, we will have a Chinese company to thank. Some folks read this as being simply about government regulations — and I did specifically mention thePresident Biden executive order on AI, whichPresident Trump has already repealed— but that misses the deeper point I was driving at. One of the intense frustrations of the last few years of AI debate has been themotte-and-baileyaspect of the safety question. I understand and grant the very real concerns about AI safety — that’s the “motte” in the safety argument — but the way that AI safety has too often manifested has been through the imposition of various cultural mores that roughly align with San Francisco politics — that’s the “bailey”. Indeed, if you look again at the excerpt fromOpenAI’s GPT-2 announcementthat I linked to yesterday, it’s right there in the first sentence: Due to concerns about large language models being used to generate deceptive, biased, or abusive language at scale, we are only releasing a much smaller version of GPT-2 along with sampling code. We are not releasing the dataset, training code, or GPT-2 model weights…We are aware that some researchers have the technical capacity to reproduce and open source our results. We believe our release strategy limits the initial set of organizations who may choose to do this, and gives the AI community more time to have a discussion about the implications of such systems. First off, “deceptive, biased, or abusive language” is not a human extinction level danger. Second, who decides what is “deceptive, biased, or abusive”? And third, whatever your position on these questions, I think we can all agree that a tremendous amount of time and effort has been devoted to arguing about these cultural war issues — and implementing one side or the other of them — and by definition that time has an opportunity cost! More broadly, I think it is completely valid to argue that a lot of time and energy in tech has been devoted to many things other than actual tech, and that the justification for that lack of focus has been rooted in an assumption that the U.S. generally and Big Tech companies specifically have unassailable advantages. That’s not the case! OpenAI is not, to be fair, what we would consider “Big Tech”, but that makes their own self-assuredness in their position that much more striking. Go back to the release ofo1, andtheir blog post at the time: We believe that a hidden chain of thought presents a unique opportunity for monitoring models. Assuming it is faithful and legible, the hidden chain of thought allows us to “read the mind” of the model and understand its thought process. For example, in the future we may wish to monitor the chain of thought for signs of manipulating the user. However, for this to work the model must have freedom to express its thoughts in unaltered form, so we cannot train any policy compliance or user preferences onto the chain of thought. We also do not want to make an unaligned chain of thought directly visible to users. Therefore, after weighing multiple factors including user experience, competitive advantage, and the option to pursue the chain of thought monitoring, we have decided not to show the raw chains of thought to users. We acknowledge this decision has disadvantages. We strive to partially make up for it by teaching the model to reproduce any useful ideas from the chain of thought in the answer. For theo1model series we show a model-generated summary of the chain of thought. I did understand OpenAI’s competitive concerns, but the existence ofR1has shown that locking down chain-of-thought perhaps didn’t matter so much in the end; more generally, the consideration of competitive concerns gets back to my overall critique, that the U.S. approach to competition is too rooted in stopping and blocking would-be competitors instead of out-innovating them. And, of course, there is all that language about “policy compliance” and the horror of the model having “freedom to express its thoughts in unadultered form”. Every single bit of it is a distraction, and the distractions have to go — particularly if you are worried about the actual legitimate safety concerns. I think the Deepseek moment is not really the Sputnik moment, but more like the Google moment.If anyone was around in ~2004, you'll know what I mean, but more on that later.I think everyone is over-rotated on this because Deepseek came out of China. Let me try to un-rotate…— Yishan (@yishan)January 28, 2025 I think the Deepseek moment is not really the Sputnik moment, but more like the Google moment.If anyone was around in ~2004, you'll know what I mean, but more on that later.I think everyone is over-rotated on this because Deepseek came out of China. Let me try to un-rotate… Sputnik showed that the Soviets could do something the US couldn’t (“a new fearsome power”). They didn’t subsequently publish all the technical details and half the blueprints. They only showed that it could be done. With Deepseek, if I recall correctly, a lab in Berkeley read their paper and duplicated the claimed results on a small scale within a day. That’s why I say it’s like the Google moment in 2004. Google filed its S-1 in 2004, and revealed to the world that they had built the largest supercomputer cluster by using distributed algorithms to network together commodity computers at the best performance-per-dollar point on the cost curve. This was in contrast to every other tech company, who at that time just bought what were essentially larger and larger mainframes, always at the most expensive leading edge of the cost curve. this is not the right lessonthere’s an opportunity cost to researcher time and if they’re spending it micro optimizing PTX to make the best of limited comms that’s something else they weren’t doingnerfing some aspect of the hardware is never a benefithttps://t.co/tzsPxT0EX1— roon (@tszzl)January 27, 2025 this is not the right lessonthere’s an opportunity cost to researcher time and if they’re spending it micro optimizing PTX to make the best of limited comms that’s something else they weren’t doingnerfing some aspect of the hardware is never a benefithttps://t.co/tzsPxT0EX1 The most dangerous lure about thinking in terms of comparative advantage is how time and learning curves lead you to consequences that you never considered when you made your decision. I wrote about exactly this last year inA Chance to Build; I started the post by describing how U.S. semiconductor companies kicked off outsourcing to Asia, and tied that to the fact that Apple can’t make an iPhone in the U.S.: I think that Jobs had cause-and-effect backwards: there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineers in the U.S. because there are not 30,000 manufacturing engineering jobs to be filled. That is because the structure of the world economy — choices made starting with Bretton Woods in particular, and cemented by the removal of tariffs over time — made them nonviable. Say what you will about the viability or wisdom of Trump’s tariffs, the motivation — to undo eighty years of structural changes — is pretty straightforward! The other thing about Jobs’ answer is how ultimately self-serving it was. This is not to say it was wrong: Apple could not only not manufacture an iPhone in the U.S. because of cost, it also can’t do so because of capability; that capability is downstream of an ecosystem that has developed in Asia and a long learning curve that China has traveled and that the U.S. has abandoned. Ultimately, though, the benefit to Apple has been profound: the company has the best supply chain in the world, centered in China, that gives it the capability to build computers on an unimaginable scale with maximum quality for not that much money at all. Connect this to Google: what if Google had taken @roon’s advice, and not wasted the time of valuable “researchers” in transforming how data centers are built? Perhaps they could have waited until Alibaba did it a decade later, and rented capacity? And, in the meantime, they would have been a far smaller and less significant company specifically, and the entire U.S. tech industry would be similarly stunted generally. To be fair to @roon, he does seem to be talking narrowly about the specific optimizations that DeepSeek made to overcome the H800’s nerfed memory bandwidth, but I think the critique holds more generally: U.S. tech companies, including OpenAI, have clearly in retrospect been Nvidia’s willing suckers, happy to pay for more capacity instead of wringing out their own; how many years would it have taken them to discover DeepSeek’s breakthroughs independently? No, infrastructure optimization isn’t sexy, but it matters. Indeed, I’d go further: every person in AI is echoingSatya Nadella’s invocation of Jevons paradox, i.e. the idea that cheaper computing drives  more usage, but the reason you know that is cope — even if it’s true! — is because the revealed preference of every tech company was that they saw more value in one more researcher than in one more infrastructure engineer. Which again, is why every single person who actually believes in AI and Jevons paradox should be sending thank you notes to DeepSeek. I will admit. After two incredible years of the AI trade, I was worried that it would become long in the tooth at the end of the year. Ironically, one of the most bullish things possible happened at the end of the year: O3. While the world was focused on scaling laws, there are still many dimensions of improvement ahead of us, and O3 gave us a taste of the future. I believe that there is no practical limit to the improvements of models other than economics, and I think that will be the real constraint in the future. It is reasonable that if we spent infinite dollars on a model, it would be improved. The problem is whether infinite dollars would make sense for a business. That is going to be the key question for 2025. How do the economics of AI make this work? One of the core assumptions about the internet has just been broken. Marginal costs now exist again, meaning that most hyperscalers will become increasingly capital-intensive. The era of aggregation theory is behind us, and AI is again making technology expensive. This relation of increased cost from increased consumption is anti-internet era thinking. And this will be the big problem that will be reckoned with this year. Hyperscaler’s business models are mainly underpinned by the marginal cost being zero. So, as long as you set up the infrastructure and fill an internet-scale product with users, you can make money. This era will soon be over, and the future will be much weirder and more compute-intensive. Looking back on the 2010s, we will probably consider them a naive time in the long arc of technology. One of our fundamental assumptions about this period is unraveling. This will be the single most significant change in the technology landscape going forward. I discussed this post onthe first Sharp Tech episode of the year, but haven’t written about it on Stratechery as I hadn’t fully formed my thoughts on it. There is definitely validity to the point, andI think it’s a big threat to the SaaS model in particular. On the flip side, non-reasoning LLMs are still great at producing content, and they also get smaller by distilling the output of reasoning models; one of the big R1 takeaways is that you can infuse reasoning into normal LLMs. More than that, though, you can also use them to generate massive amounts of synthetic data that simply teach the normal LLMs the answer to an effectively infinite number of questions. And, of course, reasoning could simply end up being effectively free. One announcement I should have added to yesterday’s post was Google’s announcement ofGemini 2.0 Flash Thinking. It appears to be competitive with R1: The China is crushing US rhetoric totally forgets about Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking.Likely cheaper, longer context and better on reasoning.We're still early in the AI race.pic.twitter.com/X42VKTbGFZ— Deedy (@deedydas)January 26, 2025 We don’t know the prices yet, to be clear — the prices in that tweet are for the 1.5 model. Google, however, is a company that actually cares about and has invested in infrastructure (and perhaps doesn’t see the need for the software-type of margins OpenAI and Anthropic have allegedly been earning on their API), so I wouldn’t be surprised if they are very competitive. Of course they’re not open source, but again R1 is: I can get all of the thinking I want locally for free. This isn’t necessarily dispositive in terms of the long-term prospects for Aggregation Theory, but given that the entire history of technology has been defined by processing speed simultaneously increasing even as it decreases in price, the burden of proof is probably on those who say that zero marginal costs are an aberration. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025