# [PODCAST] WBD Split, HBO and Warner, Whither Sports?

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/wbd-split-hbo-and-warner-whither-sports/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.eA8IxYxVsLIr-f3B_E8uNNO68NuD4XsNe7vfaqJXKBoKus0riOImMOBrtt3jeVz7YiQdvpdCQQYWsCHSjgq8an-uhv5fHcVR5AOYtzzB0It0Qi_n80xcOwIm0amKGSk3eIOCpJ-v1P9j1qOn3R43Iiwu2aHYZrhvOJIhUWCf0uRiUgdsb8apI3gx0HuMgAfRJDKzZjeaH5zIBFGFtrH1bwlqPYh53q_BtwIO_IKiMk7hTDVpTQ6BaP0F0Cv0r8cfciXatebo0wMiD0V_gCw0aDhtYbMS64hKR7NonjCc_dvACUJkdWZE_4ORdJ9RlEIzjFR7iNnAF8r9bQ_Ha4ZlbQ
**Atlas ID**: 229560
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.869577

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirWBD Split, HBO and Warner, Whither Sports?Monday, June 16, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussedApple’s Retreatat WWDC, and Meta’s investment in Scale AI.This Thursday is a federal holiday; as a reminder Stratechery followsthe stock market holiday schedule; there will be no Stratechery Interview.On to the Update:WBD SplitFrom theWall Street Journal:Warner Bros. Discovery is splitting itself into two stand-alone publicly traded entertainment companies, separating its HBO Max streaming service, movie studio and TV production business from its cable networks. One company will be home to CNN, TNT, TBS and Warner’s dozens of cable channels, as well as its international holdings. That entity, called Global Networks for now, will hold as much as a 20% stake in the second entity, which Warner is referring to as Streaming & Studios. It plans to use earnings from that stake to pay off debt. The move effectively undoes much of Warner Media and Discovery Communications’ 2022 merger, separating Warner’s marquee film and TV from Discovery’s reality and nonfiction fare.Warner, like other entertainment companies including Disney and Paramount Global, has seen ratings and revenue decline in its once-powerful cable network operation, with consumers ditching traditional pay-television in favor of streaming. Comcast is in the process of spinning off the bulk of its cable network business into a stand-alone company named Versant that is expected to be complete by year’s end. Warner is betting that its parts are worth more than the whole. Traditional media companies are trying to keep up with rivals such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video that are unburdened by legacy cable businesses.Warner told investors late last year that it planned to restructure into two operating divisions. It said Monday that the separation will unlock shareholder value and give each company the ability to be more nimble in a rapidly changing media landscape.I do feel compelled to cover this because, as much as I like celebrating when I get things right, I also need to own my Ls, and I’m taking a big one here. In2021and2022, I was very optimistic about the idea of combining Warner Bros. and Discovery. My reasons for optimism included:Increased bargaining power with MVPD providersA streaming package that appealed to the entire household, with a combination of prestige content and top-notch “filler” (my affectionate term for Discovery-style reality shows)A better advertising offering that extended across linear TV and streamingThe biggest mistake in my analysis was not properly accounting for the debt which the new Warner Bros. Discovery was taking on, a mistake that was greatly amplified by the significant rise in interest rates that has occurred over the past few years (although WBD’s debt is still fairly cheap and is going down);S&P Global downgraded WBD’s debt to junk status late last month, thanks in large part to declining linear TV revenues.It’s important to acknowledge, however, that my reasons for optimism were overstated as well. First, there are serious questions about WBD’s MVPD leverage going forward, particularly now that TNT has lost the NBA (more on the sports angle in a moment). Second, there is no evidence that Max’s breadth does anything to mitigate churn, which remains amongst the highest of the streaming services. Third, despite the fact that Discovery had a decent ad product, WBD hasn’t really made anything compelling, and has actually used CNN and sports to push customers out of the ad-supported version and into the higher-priced tier, strongly suggesting their ads just don’t monetize that well.Basically, nothing seems to have worked here, although at least Max is called HBO again.HBO and WarnerAbout that name change; fromVariety in May:Turns out, Warner Bros. Discovery thinks HBO has some pretty good brand equity, after all. This summer, streamer Max will bend the knee and rebrand back to its original name, HBO Max. The change comes just over two years after Warner Bros. Discovery decided to drop HBO from the streamer’s name to become just Max. Note that while HBO and Max have carried separate commercial branding during that time, they’ve competed under one “HBO/Max” label for industry awards. The surprise announcement, made less than two months after Max tweaked its logo to look more like the classic black-and-white HBO color scheme, was revealed at Warner Bros. Discovery’s upfront presentation to ad execs in New York on Wednesday.In a press release, WBD said “returning the HBO brand into HBO Max will further drive the service forward and amplify the uniqueness that subscribers can expect from the offering. It is also a testament to WBD’s willingness to keep boldly iterating its strategy and approach — leaning heavily on consumer data and insights — to best position itself for success.”From one perspective, dropping the HBO name never made much sense; myDitheringco-hostJohn Gruber spoke for many when this news dropped:Everyone should be clear on what to make fun of here. We should not be making fun of the fact that they’re changing the name back to HBO Max. No one likes to admit to mistakes. It’s intensely uncomfortable. And people who are good at politics and PR are good at spinning mistakes as not-mistakes. We should, in fact, congratulate them for admitting to this dumb fucking mistake and re-embracing the “HBO” name.On the other hand, I actually was always pretty uncomfortable with over-extending the HBO name;I wrote back in 2018when AT&T was looking to expand Warner Bros. streaming ambitions:Here it’s easier to argue that the New York Times was directionally correct about changes coming: today HBO is a brand built on differentiation to a much greater extreme than any other TV channel or streaming service. There aren’t that many shows, relatively speaking, but 40 million households or so pay anyways because those shows are must-see.Compare that to Netflix: certainly the streaming service is investing lots of money in having differentiated content, but the long-term goal, and by extension the ultimate value proposition for consumers, is offering something for everyone all of the time. To be TV, in other words, but freed from the constraints of geography and time; one subscribes to Netflix not to get a particular show, but simply because that is what one does (just as one once subscribed to cable).Can you see the difference? Just think of the tagline: “It’s not TV, it’s HBO”. That’s not simply a slogan! At least it wasn’t, but it will be if AT&T sees the brand’s ultimate value as a consumer front-end for a de facto Netflix competitor, that is to say, TV.More broadly, if my interpretation of these comments is correct and AT&T plans to build a streaming service to rival Netflix, well first good luck, and second, that is quite a bit higher level of ambition for the Time Warner acquisition than I anticipated. That’s not necessarily a compliment! The reason I wrote about the possibility of Time Warner content differentiating AT&T wireless service through zero rating is that that was an actual benefit of acquisition that could not necessarily be gained through contract. Building a Netflix competitor, on the other hand, is first and foremost about cash, and it’s not clear why AT&T is better positioned to furnish that cash instead of the market.OK, maybe I can take the W on this analysis? It holds up pretty well! In the end, the mistake was not so much about combining Warner Bros. and Discovery as it was trying to take on Netflix in the first place; my instincts were right about that, I just wish I had stayed anchored on that point all the way through.To that end, the return to HBO branding makes even more sense with the news of this split, which isn’t just an unwinding of the Discovery merger: that’s giving up on competing with Netflix as a general purpose something-for-everyone streamer. What this split really is is an undoing of the 1996 acquisition of Turner Broadcasting by Time Warner. Time Warner, before that acquisition, had differentiated content from its studio and a premium cable channel; the new Time Warner is going to have differentiated content from its studio and a premium streaming service.The real question, however, is if this roll-back should go even further. Time Warner was itself the product of a merger: Time Inc. started in publishing but launched HBO in 1972; Warner was a studio that merged with Time in 1990. Obviously all of Time’s publishing assets are long gone, which leaves just HBO, but is HBO even worth it anymore? It’s not just that the brand equity has been diminished; it’s that feeding a streaming service is a distraction from simply making great content and selling it to the highest bidder. I further complained about the watering down of HBOin 2019and added:There are two points to be made about this deal. First, despite the fact that streaming services are supposed to be paying full market rate for shows, even if they made those shows themselves, it is striking that all of the production studios happen to be acquiring their own shows. Warner is acquiring “Friends” and “Big Bang Theory”, NBCUniversal is acquiring “The Office”, and the show that Netflix is acquiring, “Seinfeld”, was produced by Sony, which is largely sitting out the streaming service war.This, for the record, speaks well of Sony: I remain convinced that at some point most of these streaming services are going to fold as their executives — or their replacements — realize that fixed cost assets are best monetized by selling them to the highest bidder, or to multiple outlets, not by restricting their reach.This is still correct, and it cuts both ways: Warner is better off selling content to the highest bidder, and HBO is better off bidding for the best content. There’s no reason they have to be under the same roof.Whither Sports?FromAwful Announcing:Monday morning, news broke that Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) would be splitting into two companies: one that houses its TV and movie studio along with its Max (soon to be HBO Max) streaming service and another that houses its legacy assets, including the TNT Sports family of cable networks…The move obviously has massive implications for sports fans. TNT Sports owns numerous prevalent live sports rights in the United States, and its split from WBD will impact how and where fans can access those games. Similarly to Versant, WBD’s new entity, which is temporarily being called Global Networks, will have to navigate its future without direct access to a broadcast network or a streaming service. However, unlike Versant, which is primarily acquiring the scraps of NBC’s larger live sports portfolio, Global Networks is acquiring the entire enchilada from WBD. That means the:NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament (through 2032)MLB (through 2028)NHL (through 2028)College Football Playoff (through 2028)NASCAR (through 2031)French Open (through 2034)For individuals who access TNT properties through a traditional pay-TV bundle, not much will change. The question becomes how these networks will be distributed digitally as more consumers move to streaming and cable goes the way of the dodo. In the interim, TNT Sports properties will continue to stream through Max, per the company’s investor call discussing the move on Monday. But that will be a temporary solution. At some point, TNT Sports will need to find a streaming partner willing to license its content for its platform. And given TNT’s live sports portfolio, that may prove more challenging than it seems.It’s only been three weeks since I put togetherthis overview of U.S. sports rightsin anticipation of nearly every major sporting event being available via streaming, starting this fall, and there’s already a wrench in the plans!On one hand, it makes total sense to include TNT Sports in the spin-off: sports are essential to maintaining some sort of leverage with MVPDs, which is critical to maintaining the cash flow necessary to cover all that debt; meanwhile, sports just don’t make sense for a streaming service that is retreating to premium, given just how expensive rights are.What is a bit weird, at least in terms of timing, are those college football playoff rights;from ESPN in late May:ESPN and TNT Sports have reached a five-year agreement for TNT Sports to sublicense select College Football Playoff games from ESPN starting this season, the networks announced Wednesday. TNT Sports will present two first-round CFP games during the 2024 and 2025 seasons. In addition to the first-round games, TNT Sports will add two quarterfinal games each year, starting with the 2026 season through the 2028 season. TNT will be the primary network televising the sublicensed CFP games, among additional TNT Sports distribution platforms. ESPN will show all other CFP games on its networks, including the national championship game. ESPN will also continue to manage the sponsorship program for the presentation of the CFP.This deal makes sense from ESPN’s perspective: they get to reap the benefit of having the college football playoffs while sharing the costs (remember, when it comes to streaming, having must-see events is more important than having huge amounts of inventory). And, at the time it happened, it made sense for TNT: these games give them leverage with MVPDs, and provided a reason to subscribe to HBO Max at a time when they didn’t have many other sporting events. That last justification no longer exists, however (although the first one is more important than ever). Indeed, as the Awful Announcing article notes, the most likely outcome is that TNT starts licensing streaming rights to another entity: ESPN is an option, as well as Fox’s upcoming Fox One streaming service.The larger question is what happens in 2028: will sports leagues want to re-up with TNT Sports if they don’t have a streaming service? Will they want to separate rights? What should concern all of them is similar to the biggest objection to my argument above that Warner and HBO should be separate entities: if Warner simply sells shows, it runs the risk of monopsony with a dwindling pool of buyers; if sports starts to consolidate in terms of streaming then the leagues could eventually face a similar issue, with ESPN as a potential long-term winner.Regardless, all of this is progress for the industry as a whole: the prior structure of content makers, channels, and distributors made sense when everything went over a wire; now that everything is over the Internet, that entire middle layer doesn’t really have a reason to exist. What will be interesting to watch is just how far content makers — particularly those who give up on streaming directly — go out of their way to prop up distribution end points so that they’re not completely at the mercy of Netflix and, to a lesser extent, ESPN.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.25: Snapshots of an Evolving AI LandscapeDateFriday, June 20, 2025It’s Time to Split Up MicrosoftDateMonday, July 21, 2014Warner Bros. DiscoveryDateMonday, May 23, 2022←2025.24: Apple and Its Safe PlaceMicrosoft-OpenAI Drama Continues, WhatsApp Ads, Channel Subscriptions and the Creator Perspective→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air WBD Split, HBO and Warner, Whither Sports?Monday, June 16, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussedApple’s Retreatat WWDC, and Meta’s investment in Scale AI.This Thursday is a federal holiday; as a reminder Stratechery followsthe stock market holiday schedule; there will be no Stratechery Interview.On to the Update:WBD SplitFrom theWall Street Journal:Warner Bros. Discovery is splitting itself into two stand-alone publicly traded entertainment companies, separating its HBO Max streaming service, movie studio and TV production business from its cable networks. One company will be home to CNN, TNT, TBS and Warner’s dozens of cable channels, as well as its international holdings. That entity, called Global Networks for now, will hold as much as a 20% stake in the second entity, which Warner is referring to as Streaming & Studios. It plans to use earnings from that stake to pay off debt. The move effectively undoes much of Warner Media and Discovery Communications’ 2022 merger, separating Warner’s marquee film and TV from Discovery’s reality and nonfiction fare.Warner, like other entertainment companies including Disney and Paramount Global, has seen ratings and revenue decline in its once-powerful cable network operation, with consumers ditching traditional pay-television in favor of streaming. Comcast is in the process of spinning off the bulk of its cable network business into a stand-alone company named Versant that is expected to be complete by year’s end. Warner is betting that its parts are worth more than the whole. Traditional media companies are trying to keep up with rivals such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video that are unburdened by legacy cable businesses.Warner told investors late last year that it planned to restructure into two operating divisions. It said Monday that the separation will unlock shareholder value and give each company the ability to be more nimble in a rapidly changing media landscape.I do feel compelled to cover this because, as much as I like celebrating when I get things right, I also need to own my Ls, and I’m taking a big one here. In2021and2022, I was very optimistic about the idea of combining Warner Bros. and Discovery. My reasons for optimism included:Increased bargaining power with MVPD providersA streaming package that appealed to the entire household, with a combination of prestige content and top-notch “filler” (my affectionate term for Discovery-style reality shows)A better advertising offering that extended across linear TV and streamingThe biggest mistake in my analysis was not properly accounting for the debt which the new Warner Bros. Discovery was taking on, a mistake that was greatly amplified by the significant rise in interest rates that has occurred over the past few years (although WBD’s debt is still fairly cheap and is going down);S&P Global downgraded WBD’s debt to junk status late last month, thanks in large part to declining linear TV revenues.It’s important to acknowledge, however, that my reasons for optimism were overstated as well. First, there are serious questions about WBD’s MVPD leverage going forward, particularly now that TNT has lost the NBA (more on the sports angle in a moment). Second, there is no evidence that Max’s breadth does anything to mitigate churn, which remains amongst the highest of the streaming services. Third, despite the fact that Discovery had a decent ad product, WBD hasn’t really made anything compelling, and has actually used CNN and sports to push customers out of the ad-supported version and into the higher-priced tier, strongly suggesting their ads just don’t monetize that well.Basically, nothing seems to have worked here, although at least Max is called HBO again.HBO and WarnerAbout that name change; fromVariety in May:Turns out, Warner Bros. Discovery thinks HBO has some pretty good brand equity, after all. This summer, streamer Max will bend the knee and rebrand back to its original name, HBO Max. The change comes just over two years after Warner Bros. Discovery decided to drop HBO from the streamer’s name to become just Max. Note that while HBO and Max have carried separate commercial branding during that time, they’ve competed under one “HBO/Max” label for industry awards. The surprise announcement, made less than two months after Max tweaked its logo to look more like the classic black-and-white HBO color scheme, was revealed at Warner Bros. Discovery’s upfront presentation to ad execs in New York on Wednesday.In a press release, WBD said “returning the HBO brand into HBO Max will further drive the service forward and amplify the uniqueness that subscribers can expect from the offering. It is also a testament to WBD’s willingness to keep boldly iterating its strategy and approach — leaning heavily on consumer data and insights — to best position itself for success.”From one perspective, dropping the HBO name never made much sense; myDitheringco-hostJohn Gruber spoke for many when this news dropped:Everyone should be clear on what to make fun of here. We should not be making fun of the fact that they’re changing the name back to HBO Max. No one likes to admit to mistakes. It’s intensely uncomfortable. And people who are good at politics and PR are good at spinning mistakes as not-mistakes. We should, in fact, congratulate them for admitting to this dumb fucking mistake and re-embracing the “HBO” name.On the other hand, I actually was always pretty uncomfortable with over-extending the HBO name;I wrote back in 2018when AT&T was looking to expand Warner Bros. streaming ambitions:Here it’s easier to argue that the New York Times was directionally correct about changes coming: today HBO is a brand built on differentiation to a much greater extreme than any other TV channel or streaming service. There aren’t that many shows, relatively speaking, but 40 million households or so pay anyways because those shows are must-see.Compare that to Netflix: certainly the streaming service is investing lots of money in having differentiated content, but the long-term goal, and by extension the ultimate value proposition for consumers, is offering something for everyone all of the time. To be TV, in other words, but freed from the constraints of geography and time; one subscribes to Netflix not to get a particular show, but simply because that is what one does (just as one once subscribed to cable).Can you see the difference? Just think of the tagline: “It’s not TV, it’s HBO”. That’s not simply a slogan! At least it wasn’t, but it will be if AT&T sees the brand’s ultimate value as a consumer front-end for a de facto Netflix competitor, that is to say, TV.More broadly, if my interpretation of these comments is correct and AT&T plans to build a streaming service to rival Netflix, well first good luck, and second, that is quite a bit higher level of ambition for the Time Warner acquisition than I anticipated. That’s not necessarily a compliment! The reason I wrote about the possibility of Time Warner content differentiating AT&T wireless service through zero rating is that that was an actual benefit of acquisition that could not necessarily be gained through contract. Building a Netflix competitor, on the other hand, is first and foremost about cash, and it’s not clear why AT&T is better positioned to furnish that cash instead of the market.OK, maybe I can take the W on this analysis? It holds up pretty well! In the end, the mistake was not so much about combining Warner Bros. and Discovery as it was trying to take on Netflix in the first place; my instincts were right about that, I just wish I had stayed anchored on that point all the way through.To that end, the return to HBO branding makes even more sense with the news of this split, which isn’t just an unwinding of the Discovery merger: that’s giving up on competing with Netflix as a general purpose something-for-everyone streamer. What this split really is is an undoing of the 1996 acquisition of Turner Broadcasting by Time Warner. Time Warner, before that acquisition, had differentiated content from its studio and a premium cable channel; the new Time Warner is going to have differentiated content from its studio and a premium streaming service.The real question, however, is if this roll-back should go even further. Time Warner was itself the product of a merger: Time Inc. started in publishing but launched HBO in 1972; Warner was a studio that merged with Time in 1990. Obviously all of Time’s publishing assets are long gone, which leaves just HBO, but is HBO even worth it anymore? It’s not just that the brand equity has been diminished; it’s that feeding a streaming service is a distraction from simply making great content and selling it to the highest bidder. I further complained about the watering down of HBOin 2019and added:There are two points to be made about this deal. First, despite the fact that streaming services are supposed to be paying full market rate for shows, even if they made those shows themselves, it is striking that all of the production studios happen to be acquiring their own shows. Warner is acquiring “Friends” and “Big Bang Theory”, NBCUniversal is acquiring “The Office”, and the show that Netflix is acquiring, “Seinfeld”, was produced by Sony, which is largely sitting out the streaming service war.This, for the record, speaks well of Sony: I remain convinced that at some point most of these streaming services are going to fold as their executives — or their replacements — realize that fixed cost assets are best monetized by selling them to the highest bidder, or to multiple outlets, not by restricting their reach.This is still correct, and it cuts both ways: Warner is better off selling content to the highest bidder, and HBO is better off bidding for the best content. There’s no reason they have to be under the same roof.Whither Sports?FromAwful Announcing:Monday morning, news broke that Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) would be splitting into two companies: one that houses its TV and movie studio along with its Max (soon to be HBO Max) streaming service and another that houses its legacy assets, including the TNT Sports family of cable networks…The move obviously has massive implications for sports fans. TNT Sports owns numerous prevalent live sports rights in the United States, and its split from WBD will impact how and where fans can access those games. Similarly to Versant, WBD’s new entity, which is temporarily being called Global Networks, will have to navigate its future without direct access to a broadcast network or a streaming service. However, unlike Versant, which is primarily acquiring the scraps of NBC’s larger live sports portfolio, Global Networks is acquiring the entire enchilada from WBD. That means the:NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament (through 2032)MLB (through 2028)NHL (through 2028)College Football Playoff (through 2028)NASCAR (through 2031)French Open (through 2034)For individuals who access TNT properties through a traditional pay-TV bundle, not much will change. The question becomes how these networks will be distributed digitally as more consumers move to streaming and cable goes the way of the dodo. In the interim, TNT Sports properties will continue to stream through Max, per the company’s investor call discussing the move on Monday. But that will be a temporary solution. At some point, TNT Sports will need to find a streaming partner willing to license its content for its platform. And given TNT’s live sports portfolio, that may prove more challenging than it seems.It’s only been three weeks since I put togetherthis overview of U.S. sports rightsin anticipation of nearly every major sporting event being available via streaming, starting this fall, and there’s already a wrench in the plans!On one hand, it makes total sense to include TNT Sports in the spin-off: sports are essential to maintaining some sort of leverage with MVPDs, which is critical to maintaining the cash flow necessary to cover all that debt; meanwhile, sports just don’t make sense for a streaming service that is retreating to premium, given just how expensive rights are.What is a bit weird, at least in terms of timing, are those college football playoff rights;from ESPN in late May:ESPN and TNT Sports have reached a five-year agreement for TNT Sports to sublicense select College Football Playoff games from ESPN starting this season, the networks announced Wednesday. TNT Sports will present two first-round CFP games during the 2024 and 2025 seasons. In addition to the first-round games, TNT Sports will add two quarterfinal games each year, starting with the 2026 season through the 2028 season. TNT will be the primary network televising the sublicensed CFP games, among additional TNT Sports distribution platforms. ESPN will show all other CFP games on its networks, including the national championship game. ESPN will also continue to manage the sponsorship program for the presentation of the CFP.This deal makes sense from ESPN’s perspective: they get to reap the benefit of having the college football playoffs while sharing the costs (remember, when it comes to streaming, having must-see events is more important than having huge amounts of inventory). And, at the time it happened, it made sense for TNT: these games give them leverage with MVPDs, and provided a reason to subscribe to HBO Max at a time when they didn’t have many other sporting events. That last justification no longer exists, however (although the first one is more important than ever). Indeed, as the Awful Announcing article notes, the most likely outcome is that TNT starts licensing streaming rights to another entity: ESPN is an option, as well as Fox’s upcoming Fox One streaming service.The larger question is what happens in 2028: will sports leagues want to re-up with TNT Sports if they don’t have a streaming service? Will they want to separate rights? What should concern all of them is similar to the biggest objection to my argument above that Warner and HBO should be separate entities: if Warner simply sells shows, it runs the risk of monopsony with a dwindling pool of buyers; if sports starts to consolidate in terms of streaming then the leagues could eventually face a similar issue, with ESPN as a potential long-term winner.Regardless, all of this is progress for the industry as a whole: the prior structure of content makers, channels, and distributors made sense when everything went over a wire; now that everything is over the Internet, that entire middle layer doesn’t really have a reason to exist. What will be interesting to watch is just how far content makers — particularly those who give up on streaming directly — go out of their way to prop up distribution end points so that they’re not completely at the mercy of Netflix and, to a lesser extent, ESPN.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.25: Snapshots of an Evolving AI LandscapeDateFriday, June 20, 2025It’s Time to Split Up MicrosoftDateMonday, July 21, 2014Warner Bros. DiscoveryDateMonday, May 23, 2022←2025.24: Apple and Its Safe PlaceMicrosoft-OpenAI Drama Continues, WhatsApp Ads, Channel Subscriptions and the Creator Perspective→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All WBD Split, HBO and Warner, Whither Sports?Monday, June 16, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussedApple’s Retreatat WWDC, and Meta’s investment in Scale AI.This Thursday is a federal holiday; as a reminder Stratechery followsthe stock market holiday schedule; there will be no Stratechery Interview.On to the Update:WBD SplitFrom theWall Street Journal:Warner Bros. Discovery is splitting itself into two stand-alone publicly traded entertainment companies, separating its HBO Max streaming service, movie studio and TV production business from its cable networks. One company will be home to CNN, TNT, TBS and Warner’s dozens of cable channels, as well as its international holdings. That entity, called Global Networks for now, will hold as much as a 20% stake in the second entity, which Warner is referring to as Streaming & Studios. It plans to use earnings from that stake to pay off debt. The move effectively undoes much of Warner Media and Discovery Communications’ 2022 merger, separating Warner’s marquee film and TV from Discovery’s reality and nonfiction fare.Warner, like other entertainment companies including Disney and Paramount Global, has seen ratings and revenue decline in its once-powerful cable network operation, with consumers ditching traditional pay-television in favor of streaming. Comcast is in the process of spinning off the bulk of its cable network business into a stand-alone company named Versant that is expected to be complete by year’s end. Warner is betting that its parts are worth more than the whole. Traditional media companies are trying to keep up with rivals such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video that are unburdened by legacy cable businesses.Warner told investors late last year that it planned to restructure into two operating divisions. It said Monday that the separation will unlock shareholder value and give each company the ability to be more nimble in a rapidly changing media landscape.I do feel compelled to cover this because, as much as I like celebrating when I get things right, I also need to own my Ls, and I’m taking a big one here. In2021and2022, I was very optimistic about the idea of combining Warner Bros. and Discovery. My reasons for optimism included:Increased bargaining power with MVPD providersA streaming package that appealed to the entire household, with a combination of prestige content and top-notch “filler” (my affectionate term for Discovery-style reality shows)A better advertising offering that extended across linear TV and streamingThe biggest mistake in my analysis was not properly accounting for the debt which the new Warner Bros. Discovery was taking on, a mistake that was greatly amplified by the significant rise in interest rates that has occurred over the past few years (although WBD’s debt is still fairly cheap and is going down);S&P Global downgraded WBD’s debt to junk status late last month, thanks in large part to declining linear TV revenues.It’s important to acknowledge, however, that my reasons for optimism were overstated as well. First, there are serious questions about WBD’s MVPD leverage going forward, particularly now that TNT has lost the NBA (more on the sports angle in a moment). Second, there is no evidence that Max’s breadth does anything to mitigate churn, which remains amongst the highest of the streaming services. Third, despite the fact that Discovery had a decent ad product, WBD hasn’t really made anything compelling, and has actually used CNN and sports to push customers out of the ad-supported version and into the higher-priced tier, strongly suggesting their ads just don’t monetize that well.Basically, nothing seems to have worked here, although at least Max is called HBO again.HBO and WarnerAbout that name change; fromVariety in May:Turns out, Warner Bros. Discovery thinks HBO has some pretty good brand equity, after all. This summer, streamer Max will bend the knee and rebrand back to its original name, HBO Max. The change comes just over two years after Warner Bros. Discovery decided to drop HBO from the streamer’s name to become just Max. Note that while HBO and Max have carried separate commercial branding during that time, they’ve competed under one “HBO/Max” label for industry awards. The surprise announcement, made less than two months after Max tweaked its logo to look more like the classic black-and-white HBO color scheme, was revealed at Warner Bros. Discovery’s upfront presentation to ad execs in New York on Wednesday.In a press release, WBD said “returning the HBO brand into HBO Max will further drive the service forward and amplify the uniqueness that subscribers can expect from the offering. It is also a testament to WBD’s willingness to keep boldly iterating its strategy and approach — leaning heavily on consumer data and insights — to best position itself for success.”From one perspective, dropping the HBO name never made much sense; myDitheringco-hostJohn Gruber spoke for many when this news dropped:Everyone should be clear on what to make fun of here. We should not be making fun of the fact that they’re changing the name back to HBO Max. No one likes to admit to mistakes. It’s intensely uncomfortable. And people who are good at politics and PR are good at spinning mistakes as not-mistakes. We should, in fact, congratulate them for admitting to this dumb fucking mistake and re-embracing the “HBO” name.On the other hand, I actually was always pretty uncomfortable with over-extending the HBO name;I wrote back in 2018when AT&T was looking to expand Warner Bros. streaming ambitions:Here it’s easier to argue that the New York Times was directionally correct about changes coming: today HBO is a brand built on differentiation to a much greater extreme than any other TV channel or streaming service. There aren’t that many shows, relatively speaking, but 40 million households or so pay anyways because those shows are must-see.Compare that to Netflix: certainly the streaming service is investing lots of money in having differentiated content, but the long-term goal, and by extension the ultimate value proposition for consumers, is offering something for everyone all of the time. To be TV, in other words, but freed from the constraints of geography and time; one subscribes to Netflix not to get a particular show, but simply because that is what one does (just as one once subscribed to cable).Can you see the difference? Just think of the tagline: “It’s not TV, it’s HBO”. That’s not simply a slogan! At least it wasn’t, but it will be if AT&T sees the brand’s ultimate value as a consumer front-end for a de facto Netflix competitor, that is to say, TV.More broadly, if my interpretation of these comments is correct and AT&T plans to build a streaming service to rival Netflix, well first good luck, and second, that is quite a bit higher level of ambition for the Time Warner acquisition than I anticipated. That’s not necessarily a compliment! The reason I wrote about the possibility of Time Warner content differentiating AT&T wireless service through zero rating is that that was an actual benefit of acquisition that could not necessarily be gained through contract. Building a Netflix competitor, on the other hand, is first and foremost about cash, and it’s not clear why AT&T is better positioned to furnish that cash instead of the market.OK, maybe I can take the W on this analysis? It holds up pretty well! In the end, the mistake was not so much about combining Warner Bros. and Discovery as it was trying to take on Netflix in the first place; my instincts were right about that, I just wish I had stayed anchored on that point all the way through.To that end, the return to HBO branding makes even more sense with the news of this split, which isn’t just an unwinding of the Discovery merger: that’s giving up on competing with Netflix as a general purpose something-for-everyone streamer. What this split really is is an undoing of the 1996 acquisition of Turner Broadcasting by Time Warner. Time Warner, before that acquisition, had differentiated content from its studio and a premium cable channel; the new Time Warner is going to have differentiated content from its studio and a premium streaming service.The real question, however, is if this roll-back should go even further. Time Warner was itself the product of a merger: Time Inc. started in publishing but launched HBO in 1972; Warner was a studio that merged with Time in 1990. Obviously all of Time’s publishing assets are long gone, which leaves just HBO, but is HBO even worth it anymore? It’s not just that the brand equity has been diminished; it’s that feeding a streaming service is a distraction from simply making great content and selling it to the highest bidder. I further complained about the watering down of HBOin 2019and added:There are two points to be made about this deal. First, despite the fact that streaming services are supposed to be paying full market rate for shows, even if they made those shows themselves, it is striking that all of the production studios happen to be acquiring their own shows. Warner is acquiring “Friends” and “Big Bang Theory”, NBCUniversal is acquiring “The Office”, and the show that Netflix is acquiring, “Seinfeld”, was produced by Sony, which is largely sitting out the streaming service war.This, for the record, speaks well of Sony: I remain convinced that at some point most of these streaming services are going to fold as their executives — or their replacements — realize that fixed cost assets are best monetized by selling them to the highest bidder, or to multiple outlets, not by restricting their reach.This is still correct, and it cuts both ways: Warner is better off selling content to the highest bidder, and HBO is better off bidding for the best content. There’s no reason they have to be under the same roof.Whither Sports?FromAwful Announcing:Monday morning, news broke that Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) would be splitting into two companies: one that houses its TV and movie studio along with its Max (soon to be HBO Max) streaming service and another that houses its legacy assets, including the TNT Sports family of cable networks…The move obviously has massive implications for sports fans. TNT Sports owns numerous prevalent live sports rights in the United States, and its split from WBD will impact how and where fans can access those games. Similarly to Versant, WBD’s new entity, which is temporarily being called Global Networks, will have to navigate its future without direct access to a broadcast network or a streaming service. However, unlike Versant, which is primarily acquiring the scraps of NBC’s larger live sports portfolio, Global Networks is acquiring the entire enchilada from WBD. That means the:NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament (through 2032)MLB (through 2028)NHL (through 2028)College Football Playoff (through 2028)NASCAR (through 2031)French Open (through 2034)For individuals who access TNT properties through a traditional pay-TV bundle, not much will change. The question becomes how these networks will be distributed digitally as more consumers move to streaming and cable goes the way of the dodo. In the interim, TNT Sports properties will continue to stream through Max, per the company’s investor call discussing the move on Monday. But that will be a temporary solution. At some point, TNT Sports will need to find a streaming partner willing to license its content for its platform. And given TNT’s live sports portfolio, that may prove more challenging than it seems.It’s only been three weeks since I put togetherthis overview of U.S. sports rightsin anticipation of nearly every major sporting event being available via streaming, starting this fall, and there’s already a wrench in the plans!On one hand, it makes total sense to include TNT Sports in the spin-off: sports are essential to maintaining some sort of leverage with MVPDs, which is critical to maintaining the cash flow necessary to cover all that debt; meanwhile, sports just don’t make sense for a streaming service that is retreating to premium, given just how expensive rights are.What is a bit weird, at least in terms of timing, are those college football playoff rights;from ESPN in late May:ESPN and TNT Sports have reached a five-year agreement for TNT Sports to sublicense select College Football Playoff games from ESPN starting this season, the networks announced Wednesday. TNT Sports will present two first-round CFP games during the 2024 and 2025 seasons. In addition to the first-round games, TNT Sports will add two quarterfinal games each year, starting with the 2026 season through the 2028 season. TNT will be the primary network televising the sublicensed CFP games, among additional TNT Sports distribution platforms. ESPN will show all other CFP games on its networks, including the national championship game. ESPN will also continue to manage the sponsorship program for the presentation of the CFP.This deal makes sense from ESPN’s perspective: they get to reap the benefit of having the college football playoffs while sharing the costs (remember, when it comes to streaming, having must-see events is more important than having huge amounts of inventory). And, at the time it happened, it made sense for TNT: these games give them leverage with MVPDs, and provided a reason to subscribe to HBO Max at a time when they didn’t have many other sporting events. That last justification no longer exists, however (although the first one is more important than ever). Indeed, as the Awful Announcing article notes, the most likely outcome is that TNT starts licensing streaming rights to another entity: ESPN is an option, as well as Fox’s upcoming Fox One streaming service.The larger question is what happens in 2028: will sports leagues want to re-up with TNT Sports if they don’t have a streaming service? Will they want to separate rights? What should concern all of them is similar to the biggest objection to my argument above that Warner and HBO should be separate entities: if Warner simply sells shows, it runs the risk of monopsony with a dwindling pool of buyers; if sports starts to consolidate in terms of streaming then the leagues could eventually face a similar issue, with ESPN as a potential long-term winner.Regardless, all of this is progress for the industry as a whole: the prior structure of content makers, channels, and distributors made sense when everything went over a wire; now that everything is over the Internet, that entire middle layer doesn’t really have a reason to exist. What will be interesting to watch is just how far content makers — particularly those who give up on streaming directly — go out of their way to prop up distribution end points so that they’re not completely at the mercy of Netflix and, to a lesser extent, ESPN.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.25: Snapshots of an Evolving AI LandscapeDateFriday, June 20, 2025It’s Time to Split Up MicrosoftDateMonday, July 21, 2014Warner Bros. DiscoveryDateMonday, May 23, 2022←2025.24: Apple and Its Safe PlaceMicrosoft-OpenAI Drama Continues, WhatsApp Ads, Channel Subscriptions and the Creator Perspective→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Tech, Andrew and I discussedApple’s Retreatat WWDC, and Meta’s investment in Scale AI.This Thursday is a federal holiday; as a reminder Stratechery followsthe stock market holiday schedule; there will be no Stratechery Interview.On to the Update:WBD SplitFrom theWall Street Journal:Warner Bros. Discovery is splitting itself into two stand-alone publicly traded entertainment companies, separating its HBO Max streaming service, movie studio and TV production business from its cable networks. One company will be home to CNN, TNT, TBS and Warner’s dozens of cable channels, as well as its international holdings. That entity, called Global Networks for now, will hold as much as a 20% stake in the second entity, which Warner is referring to as Streaming & Studios. It plans to use earnings from that stake to pay off debt. The move effectively undoes much of Warner Media and Discovery Communications’ 2022 merger, separating Warner’s marquee film and TV from Discovery’s reality and nonfiction fare.Warner, like other entertainment companies including Disney and Paramount Global, has seen ratings and revenue decline in its once-powerful cable network operation, with consumers ditching traditional pay-television in favor of streaming. Comcast is in the process of spinning off the bulk of its cable network business into a stand-alone company named Versant that is expected to be complete by year’s end. Warner is betting that its parts are worth more than the whole. Traditional media companies are trying to keep up with rivals such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video that are unburdened by legacy cable businesses.Warner told investors late last year that it planned to restructure into two operating divisions. It said Monday that the separation will unlock shareholder value and give each company the ability to be more nimble in a rapidly changing media landscape.I do feel compelled to cover this because, as much as I like celebrating when I get things right, I also need to own my Ls, and I’m taking a big one here. In2021and2022, I was very optimistic about the idea of combining Warner Bros. and Discovery. My reasons for optimism included:Increased bargaining power with MVPD providersA streaming package that appealed to the entire household, with a combination of prestige content and top-notch “filler” (my affectionate term for Discovery-style reality shows)A better advertising offering that extended across linear TV and streamingThe biggest mistake in my analysis was not properly accounting for the debt which the new Warner Bros. Discovery was taking on, a mistake that was greatly amplified by the significant rise in interest rates that has occurred over the past few years (although WBD’s debt is still fairly cheap and is going down);S&P Global downgraded WBD’s debt to junk status late last month, thanks in large part to declining linear TV revenues.It’s important to acknowledge, however, that my reasons for optimism were overstated as well. First, there are serious questions about WBD’s MVPD leverage going forward, particularly now that TNT has lost the NBA (more on the sports angle in a moment). Second, there is no evidence that Max’s breadth does anything to mitigate churn, which remains amongst the highest of the streaming services. Third, despite the fact that Discovery had a decent ad product, WBD hasn’t really made anything compelling, and has actually used CNN and sports to push customers out of the ad-supported version and into the higher-priced tier, strongly suggesting their ads just don’t monetize that well.Basically, nothing seems to have worked here, although at least Max is called HBO again.HBO and WarnerAbout that name change; fromVariety in May:Turns out, Warner Bros. Discovery thinks HBO has some pretty good brand equity, after all. This summer, streamer Max will bend the knee and rebrand back to its original name, HBO Max. The change comes just over two years after Warner Bros. Discovery decided to drop HBO from the streamer’s name to become just Max. Note that while HBO and Max have carried separate commercial branding during that time, they’ve competed under one “HBO/Max” label for industry awards. The surprise announcement, made less than two months after Max tweaked its logo to look more like the classic black-and-white HBO color scheme, was revealed at Warner Bros. Discovery’s upfront presentation to ad execs in New York on Wednesday.In a press release, WBD said “returning the HBO brand into HBO Max will further drive the service forward and amplify the uniqueness that subscribers can expect from the offering. It is also a testament to WBD’s willingness to keep boldly iterating its strategy and approach — leaning heavily on consumer data and insights — to best position itself for success.”From one perspective, dropping the HBO name never made much sense; myDitheringco-hostJohn Gruber spoke for many when this news dropped:Everyone should be clear on what to make fun of here. We should not be making fun of the fact that they’re changing the name back to HBO Max. No one likes to admit to mistakes. It’s intensely uncomfortable. And people who are good at politics and PR are good at spinning mistakes as not-mistakes. We should, in fact, congratulate them for admitting to this dumb fucking mistake and re-embracing the “HBO” name.On the other hand, I actually was always pretty uncomfortable with over-extending the HBO name;I wrote back in 2018when AT&T was looking to expand Warner Bros. streaming ambitions:Here it’s easier to argue that the New York Times was directionally correct about changes coming: today HBO is a brand built on differentiation to a much greater extreme than any other TV channel or streaming service. There aren’t that many shows, relatively speaking, but 40 million households or so pay anyways because those shows are must-see.Compare that to Netflix: certainly the streaming service is investing lots of money in having differentiated content, but the long-term goal, and by extension the ultimate value proposition for consumers, is offering something for everyone all of the time. To be TV, in other words, but freed from the constraints of geography and time; one subscribes to Netflix not to get a particular show, but simply because that is what one does (just as one once subscribed to cable).Can you see the difference? Just think of the tagline: “It’s not TV, it’s HBO”. That’s not simply a slogan! At least it wasn’t, but it will be if AT&T sees the brand’s ultimate value as a consumer front-end for a de facto Netflix competitor, that is to say, TV.More broadly, if my interpretation of these comments is correct and AT&T plans to build a streaming service to rival Netflix, well first good luck, and second, that is quite a bit higher level of ambition for the Time Warner acquisition than I anticipated. That’s not necessarily a compliment! The reason I wrote about the possibility of Time Warner content differentiating AT&T wireless service through zero rating is that that was an actual benefit of acquisition that could not necessarily be gained through contract. Building a Netflix competitor, on the other hand, is first and foremost about cash, and it’s not clear why AT&T is better positioned to furnish that cash instead of the market.OK, maybe I can take the W on this analysis? It holds up pretty well! In the end, the mistake was not so much about combining Warner Bros. and Discovery as it was trying to take on Netflix in the first place; my instincts were right about that, I just wish I had stayed anchored on that point all the way through.To that end, the return to HBO branding makes even more sense with the news of this split, which isn’t just an unwinding of the Discovery merger: that’s giving up on competing with Netflix as a general purpose something-for-everyone streamer. What this split really is is an undoing of the 1996 acquisition of Turner Broadcasting by Time Warner. Time Warner, before that acquisition, had differentiated content from its studio and a premium cable channel; the new Time Warner is going to have differentiated content from its studio and a premium streaming service.The real question, however, is if this roll-back should go even further. Time Warner was itself the product of a merger: Time Inc. started in publishing but launched HBO in 1972; Warner was a studio that merged with Time in 1990. Obviously all of Time’s publishing assets are long gone, which leaves just HBO, but is HBO even worth it anymore? It’s not just that the brand equity has been diminished; it’s that feeding a streaming service is a distraction from simply making great content and selling it to the highest bidder. I further complained about the watering down of HBOin 2019and added:There are two points to be made about this deal. First, despite the fact that streaming services are supposed to be paying full market rate for shows, even if they made those shows themselves, it is striking that all of the production studios happen to be acquiring their own shows. Warner is acquiring “Friends” and “Big Bang Theory”, NBCUniversal is acquiring “The Office”, and the show that Netflix is acquiring, “Seinfeld”, was produced by Sony, which is largely sitting out the streaming service war.This, for the record, speaks well of Sony: I remain convinced that at some point most of these streaming services are going to fold as their executives — or their replacements — realize that fixed cost assets are best monetized by selling them to the highest bidder, or to multiple outlets, not by restricting their reach.This is still correct, and it cuts both ways: Warner is better off selling content to the highest bidder, and HBO is better off bidding for the best content. There’s no reason they have to be under the same roof.Whither Sports?FromAwful Announcing:Monday morning, news broke that Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) would be splitting into two companies: one that houses its TV and movie studio along with its Max (soon to be HBO Max) streaming service and another that houses its legacy assets, including the TNT Sports family of cable networks…The move obviously has massive implications for sports fans. TNT Sports owns numerous prevalent live sports rights in the United States, and its split from WBD will impact how and where fans can access those games. Similarly to Versant, WBD’s new entity, which is temporarily being called Global Networks, will have to navigate its future without direct access to a broadcast network or a streaming service. However, unlike Versant, which is primarily acquiring the scraps of NBC’s larger live sports portfolio, Global Networks is acquiring the entire enchilada from WBD. That means the:NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament (through 2032)MLB (through 2028)NHL (through 2028)College Football Playoff (through 2028)NASCAR (through 2031)French Open (through 2034)For individuals who access TNT properties through a traditional pay-TV bundle, not much will change. The question becomes how these networks will be distributed digitally as more consumers move to streaming and cable goes the way of the dodo. In the interim, TNT Sports properties will continue to stream through Max, per the company’s investor call discussing the move on Monday. But that will be a temporary solution. At some point, TNT Sports will need to find a streaming partner willing to license its content for its platform. And given TNT’s live sports portfolio, that may prove more challenging than it seems.It’s only been three weeks since I put togetherthis overview of U.S. sports rightsin anticipation of nearly every major sporting event being available via streaming, starting this fall, and there’s already a wrench in the plans!On one hand, it makes total sense to include TNT Sports in the spin-off: sports are essential to maintaining some sort of leverage with MVPDs, which is critical to maintaining the cash flow necessary to cover all that debt; meanwhile, sports just don’t make sense for a streaming service that is retreating to premium, given just how expensive rights are.What is a bit weird, at least in terms of timing, are those college football playoff rights;from ESPN in late May:ESPN and TNT Sports have reached a five-year agreement for TNT Sports to sublicense select College Football Playoff games from ESPN starting this season, the networks announced Wednesday. TNT Sports will present two first-round CFP games during the 2024 and 2025 seasons. In addition to the first-round games, TNT Sports will add two quarterfinal games each year, starting with the 2026 season through the 2028 season. TNT will be the primary network televising the sublicensed CFP games, among additional TNT Sports distribution platforms. ESPN will show all other CFP games on its networks, including the national championship game. ESPN will also continue to manage the sponsorship program for the presentation of the CFP.This deal makes sense from ESPN’s perspective: they get to reap the benefit of having the college football playoffs while sharing the costs (remember, when it comes to streaming, having must-see events is more important than having huge amounts of inventory). And, at the time it happened, it made sense for TNT: these games give them leverage with MVPDs, and provided a reason to subscribe to HBO Max at a time when they didn’t have many other sporting events. That last justification no longer exists, however (although the first one is more important than ever). Indeed, as the Awful Announcing article notes, the most likely outcome is that TNT starts licensing streaming rights to another entity: ESPN is an option, as well as Fox’s upcoming Fox One streaming service.The larger question is what happens in 2028: will sports leagues want to re-up with TNT Sports if they don’t have a streaming service? Will they want to separate rights? What should concern all of them is similar to the biggest objection to my argument above that Warner and HBO should be separate entities: if Warner simply sells shows, it runs the risk of monopsony with a dwindling pool of buyers; if sports starts to consolidate in terms of streaming then the leagues could eventually face a similar issue, with ESPN as a potential long-term winner.Regardless, all of this is progress for the industry as a whole: the prior structure of content makers, channels, and distributors made sense when everything went over a wire; now that everything is over the Internet, that entire middle layer doesn’t really have a reason to exist. What will be interesting to watch is just how far content makers — particularly those who give up on streaming directly — go out of their way to prop up distribution end points so that they’re not completely at the mercy of Netflix and, to a lesser extent, ESPN.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Warner Bros. Discovery is splitting itself into two stand-alone publicly traded entertainment companies, separating its HBO Max streaming service, movie studio and TV production business from its cable networks. One company will be home to CNN, TNT, TBS and Warner’s dozens of cable channels, as well as its international holdings. That entity, called Global Networks for now, will hold as much as a 20% stake in the second entity, which Warner is referring to as Streaming & Studios. It plans to use earnings from that stake to pay off debt. The move effectively undoes much of Warner Media and Discovery Communications’ 2022 merger, separating Warner’s marquee film and TV from Discovery’s reality and nonfiction fare. Warner, like other entertainment companies including Disney and Paramount Global, has seen ratings and revenue decline in its once-powerful cable network operation, with consumers ditching traditional pay-television in favor of streaming. Comcast is in the process of spinning off the bulk of its cable network business into a stand-alone company named Versant that is expected to be complete by year’s end. Warner is betting that its parts are worth more than the whole. Traditional media companies are trying to keep up with rivals such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video that are unburdened by legacy cable businesses. Warner told investors late last year that it planned to restructure into two operating divisions. It said Monday that the separation will unlock shareholder value and give each company the ability to be more nimble in a rapidly changing media landscape. I do feel compelled to cover this because, as much as I like celebrating when I get things right, I also need to own my Ls, and I’m taking a big one here. In2021and2022, I was very optimistic about the idea of combining Warner Bros. and Discovery. My reasons for optimism included: The biggest mistake in my analysis was not properly accounting for the debt which the new Warner Bros. Discovery was taking on, a mistake that was greatly amplified by the significant rise in interest rates that has occurred over the past few years (although WBD’s debt is still fairly cheap and is going down);S&P Global downgraded WBD’s debt to junk status late last month, thanks in large part to declining linear TV revenues. It’s important to acknowledge, however, that my reasons for optimism were overstated as well. First, there are serious questions about WBD’s MVPD leverage going forward, particularly now that TNT has lost the NBA (more on the sports angle in a moment). Second, there is no evidence that Max’s breadth does anything to mitigate churn, which remains amongst the highest of the streaming services. Third, despite the fact that Discovery had a decent ad product, WBD hasn’t really made anything compelling, and has actually used CNN and sports to push customers out of the ad-supported version and into the higher-priced tier, strongly suggesting their ads just don’t monetize that well. Turns out, Warner Bros. Discovery thinks HBO has some pretty good brand equity, after all. This summer, streamer Max will bend the knee and rebrand back to its original name, HBO Max. The change comes just over two years after Warner Bros. Discovery decided to drop HBO from the streamer’s name to become just Max. Note that while HBO and Max have carried separate commercial branding during that time, they’ve competed under one “HBO/Max” label for industry awards. The surprise announcement, made less than two months after Max tweaked its logo to look more like the classic black-and-white HBO color scheme, was revealed at Warner Bros. Discovery’s upfront presentation to ad execs in New York on Wednesday. In a press release, WBD said “returning the HBO brand into HBO Max will further drive the service forward and amplify the uniqueness that subscribers can expect from the offering. It is also a testament to WBD’s willingness to keep boldly iterating its strategy and approach — leaning heavily on consumer data and insights — to best position itself for success.” Everyone should be clear on what to make fun of here. We should not be making fun of the fact that they’re changing the name back to HBO Max. No one likes to admit to mistakes. It’s intensely uncomfortable. And people who are good at politics and PR are good at spinning mistakes as not-mistakes. We should, in fact, congratulate them for admitting to this dumb fucking mistake and re-embracing the “HBO” name. Here it’s easier to argue that the New York Times was directionally correct about changes coming: today HBO is a brand built on differentiation to a much greater extreme than any other TV channel or streaming service. There aren’t that many shows, relatively speaking, but 40 million households or so pay anyways because those shows are must-see. Compare that to Netflix: certainly the streaming service is investing lots of money in having differentiated content, but the long-term goal, and by extension the ultimate value proposition for consumers, is offering something for everyone all of the time. To be TV, in other words, but freed from the constraints of geography and time; one subscribes to Netflix not to get a particular show, but simply because that is what one does (just as one once subscribed to cable). Can you see the difference? Just think of the tagline: “It’s not TV, it’s HBO”. That’s not simply a slogan! At least it wasn’t, but it will be if AT&T sees the brand’s ultimate value as a consumer front-end for a de facto Netflix competitor, that is to say, TV. More broadly, if my interpretation of these comments is correct and AT&T plans to build a streaming service to rival Netflix, well first good luck, and second, that is quite a bit higher level of ambition for the Time Warner acquisition than I anticipated. That’s not necessarily a compliment! The reason I wrote about the possibility of Time Warner content differentiating AT&T wireless service through zero rating is that that was an actual benefit of acquisition that could not necessarily be gained through contract. Building a Netflix competitor, on the other hand, is first and foremost about cash, and it’s not clear why AT&T is better positioned to furnish that cash instead of the market. OK, maybe I can take the W on this analysis? It holds up pretty well! In the end, the mistake was not so much about combining Warner Bros. and Discovery as it was trying to take on Netflix in the first place; my instincts were right about that, I just wish I had stayed anchored on that point all the way through. To that end, the return to HBO branding makes even more sense with the news of this split, which isn’t just an unwinding of the Discovery merger: that’s giving up on competing with Netflix as a general purpose something-for-everyone streamer. What this split really is is an undoing of the 1996 acquisition of Turner Broadcasting by Time Warner. Time Warner, before that acquisition, had differentiated content from its studio and a premium cable channel; the new Time Warner is going to have differentiated content from its studio and a premium streaming service. The real question, however, is if this roll-back should go even further. Time Warner was itself the product of a merger: Time Inc. started in publishing but launched HBO in 1972; Warner was a studio that merged with Time in 1990. Obviously all of Time’s publishing assets are long gone, which leaves just HBO, but is HBO even worth it anymore? It’s not just that the brand equity has been diminished; it’s that feeding a streaming service is a distraction from simply making great content and selling it to the highest bidder. I further complained about the watering down of HBOin 2019and added: There are two points to be made about this deal. First, despite the fact that streaming services are supposed to be paying full market rate for shows, even if they made those shows themselves, it is striking that all of the production studios happen to be acquiring their own shows. Warner is acquiring “Friends” and “Big Bang Theory”, NBCUniversal is acquiring “The Office”, and the show that Netflix is acquiring, “Seinfeld”, was produced by Sony, which is largely sitting out the streaming service war. This, for the record, speaks well of Sony: I remain convinced that at some point most of these streaming services are going to fold as their executives — or their replacements — realize that fixed cost assets are best monetized by selling them to the highest bidder, or to multiple outlets, not by restricting their reach. This is still correct, and it cuts both ways: Warner is better off selling content to the highest bidder, and HBO is better off bidding for the best content. There’s no reason they have to be under the same roof. Monday morning, news broke that Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD) would be splitting into two companies: one that houses its TV and movie studio along with its Max (soon to be HBO Max) streaming service and another that houses its legacy assets, including the TNT Sports family of cable networks… The move obviously has massive implications for sports fans. TNT Sports owns numerous prevalent live sports rights in the United States, and its split from WBD will impact how and where fans can access those games. Similarly to Versant, WBD’s new entity, which is temporarily being called Global Networks, will have to navigate its future without direct access to a broadcast network or a streaming service. However, unlike Versant, which is primarily acquiring the scraps of NBC’s larger live sports portfolio, Global Networks is acquiring the entire enchilada from WBD. That means the: For individuals who access TNT properties through a traditional pay-TV bundle, not much will change. The question becomes how these networks will be distributed digitally as more consumers move to streaming and cable goes the way of the dodo. In the interim, TNT Sports properties will continue to stream through Max, per the company’s investor call discussing the move on Monday. But that will be a temporary solution. At some point, TNT Sports will need to find a streaming partner willing to license its content for its platform. And given TNT’s live sports portfolio, that may prove more challenging than it seems. It’s only been three weeks since I put togetherthis overview of U.S. sports rightsin anticipation of nearly every major sporting event being available via streaming, starting this fall, and there’s already a wrench in the plans! On one hand, it makes total sense to include TNT Sports in the spin-off: sports are essential to maintaining some sort of leverage with MVPDs, which is critical to maintaining the cash flow necessary to cover all that debt; meanwhile, sports just don’t make sense for a streaming service that is retreating to premium, given just how expensive rights are. ESPN and TNT Sports have reached a five-year agreement for TNT Sports to sublicense select College Football Playoff games from ESPN starting this season, the networks announced Wednesday. TNT Sports will present two first-round CFP games during the 2024 and 2025 seasons. In addition to the first-round games, TNT Sports will add two quarterfinal games each year, starting with the 2026 season through the 2028 season. TNT will be the primary network televising the sublicensed CFP games, among additional TNT Sports distribution platforms. ESPN will show all other CFP games on its networks, including the national championship game. ESPN will also continue to manage the sponsorship program for the presentation of the CFP. This deal makes sense from ESPN’s perspective: they get to reap the benefit of having the college football playoffs while sharing the costs (remember, when it comes to streaming, having must-see events is more important than having huge amounts of inventory). And, at the time it happened, it made sense for TNT: these games give them leverage with MVPDs, and provided a reason to subscribe to HBO Max at a time when they didn’t have many other sporting events. That last justification no longer exists, however (although the first one is more important than ever). Indeed, as the Awful Announcing article notes, the most likely outcome is that TNT starts licensing streaming rights to another entity: ESPN is an option, as well as Fox’s upcoming Fox One streaming service. The larger question is what happens in 2028: will sports leagues want to re-up with TNT Sports if they don’t have a streaming service? Will they want to separate rights? What should concern all of them is similar to the biggest objection to my argument above that Warner and HBO should be separate entities: if Warner simply sells shows, it runs the risk of monopsony with a dwindling pool of buyers; if sports starts to consolidate in terms of streaming then the leagues could eventually face a similar issue, with ESPN as a potential long-term winner. Regardless, all of this is progress for the industry as a whole: the prior structure of content makers, channels, and distributors made sense when everything went over a wire; now that everything is over the Internet, that entire middle layer doesn’t really have a reason to exist. What will be interesting to watch is just how far content makers — particularly those who give up on streaming directly — go out of their way to prop up distribution end points so that they’re not completely at the mercy of Netflix and, to a lesser extent, ESPN. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025