# [PODCAST] Apple's iPad Event, The Peaceful iPad, Disney Earnings

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/apples-ipad-event-the-peaceful-ipad-disney-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.lkasGJ_hqUVtu5Fd4Uf5YlbHYtOcfupRZ96hvuh98d0eoZQPMVS6hptepedlf2ftvhCV7hYBHl4ZfjsijExrC0_bZlWBuYBaV_1QeLmSl6QRUfoaumqitn_GmTdDpYCGLxXY3qbYAYtDmUlP6-wsq66EVSBm8XVuOG6-QOaEns6I48ZQQHVT40zfJZzhwJZBzSWQOo4TsLSUv6oSCfm45WFhAZO8v5ruTNFG-M2q56SoeARjgiibSfvtHZoPfekYfJOsPhxcA_gnlTM33Ez4mIEYiXEb5V_a2RWf4Rk-T8aJ57wv3dcShrAzt89z-rp_JlLV4iUymhtmxkJpuDokmg
**Atlas ID**: 229758
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.971963

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirApple’s iPad Event, The Peaceful iPad, Disney EarningsWednesday, May 8, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,We releasedDitheringa day late so we could cover the iPad event and John’s hands-on experience. You can add the twice-a-week 15-minutes-an-episode podcast using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple’s iPad EventFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. unveiled a new artificial intelligence-focused iPad Pro and a larger iPad Air, aiming to reinvigorate a tablet lineup that has languished over the past two years. At an online launch event Tuesday dubbed “Let Loose,” the company introduced the first redesigned version of the iPad Pro since 2018. The new model is thinner, includes a crisper Ultra Retina XDR screen with OLED technology, and has a faster M4 chip that can handle AI tasks. The new iPad Air looks like the prior version, but with a larger screen-size option and the M2 processor. The new 13-inch iPad Pro has a depth of 5.1 millimeters, which the company said makes it the thinnest Apple product ever. The bigger version is a quarter-pound lighter than its predecessor, while the 11-inch model weighs under one pound.The unveiling ends Apple’s longest drought in new iPad releases since co-founder Steve Jobs first introduced the device in 2010. The lineup was previously updated October 2022, when Apple added a faster chip to the iPad Pro and rolled out a redesigned low-end model. Apple is looking to pull the iPad out of a severe slump. The device’s sales were particularly weak last quarter, when they plunged 17% and missed analysts’ estimates, but Apple predicted that iPad revenue would rebound in the current period.The most notable technical change to the iPad was the M4 chip in the iPad Pro; at first glance this might seem like a big surprise given that the M3 only came out last fall, and was, like every M-series chip before it, based on an iPhone chip that came first (the A17 Pro, in this case). Moreover, new M3-based MacBooks Air just launched two months ago, so why doesn’t the iPad Pro have an M3?The answer — contra Apple’s PR push to insinuate that AI is the driver — is something I wrote aboutlast fall: the A17 Pro and M3 are based on TSMC’s first 3nm process (N3B) which ended up being a dead-end as far as development goes. FromWikiChip Fuseback in 2022:The N3 node is weird. It is TSMC’s first 3-nanometer class process technology, but it won’t be the mainstream node everyone will utilize. In fact, it appears to be a one-off node that the company abandoned sometimes prior to rollout. It looks as if TSMC engineers encounter some roadblocks along the way and decided to change things mid-way. We say all of this because TSMC moved on to a whole different node this year called “N3E” which we discuss below. Most of the messaging at the Technology Symposium was about N3E with the original N3 node getting just a brief pass-by mention. The big takeaway here is that N3E is a very different node from N3. While the nitty-gritty node details have not been disclosed, at a high-level it has different PPAs along with what the company claims are “very different” design rules intended to improve yield. The result of this is that N3E will not offer any direct migration path from N3, making N3 sort of a dead-end node for designers which is why TSMC expects most customers to utilize N3E instead. So why N3 exist at all? The easiest explanation is to satisfy customers’ commitment to those early technology adopters. Long term, the initial N3 node will likely fade into obscurity.In short, Apple already waited a year longer than they wanted to for N3; they weren’t going to wait another year once TSMC decided to rework their fundamental approach to 3nm, which is why TSMC pushed forward with a process that had lower yields and an unclear path to further optimizations (this was part of the 3nm issues I referencedyesterday) so that Apple could have the aforementioned A17 Pro and M3 chip. At the same time, neither Apple nor TSMC want that line to run forever, and given the slower upgrade cycle for iPads, it makes a lot of sense to jump forward to TSMC’s newer and more scalable N3E node.So why the iPad Pro and not the MacBook Airs? I assume it simply comes down to volume — there probably aren’t enough M4 chips for Apple’s most popular computer line, whereas I assume that iPads Pro sell in much smaller volume — and the fact that Apple will almost certainly refresh the MacBooks Air sooner rather than later. My bet would be some time in the fall, after the next iPhone chip (which, by the way, may, for the first time in a while, go into both iPhones Pro and regular iPhones; I don’t expect the A17 Pro to drop down to the base model).The Peaceful iPadBack in 2020, on the occasion of the iPad’s 10th anniversary, I wrote an Article entitledThe Tragic iPad. My argument was that while the iPad had always been, and continued to be, a greatconsumptiondevice, it had always had the potential to be a great creation device as well; I hearkened back not only to the original iPad launch, with Steve Jobs sitting on a couch on stage, but also the launch of the iPad 2, particularly the iPad version of GarageBand.Jobs look of wonderment says more than his words:I’m blown away with this stuff. Playing your own instruments, or using the smart instruments, anyone can make music now, in something that is this thick and weights 1.3 pounds. It’s unbelievable…this is no toy. This is something you can use for real work.GarageBand, even more than iWork the year before, was the sort of app that was only possible on an iPad. Sure, it shared a name with its Mac counterpart, but the magic came from the fact that it had little else in common.And then Jobs died, and I’ve never been able to shake the sense that this particular vision of the iPad died with him.I then launched into one of mylongest-standing gripes: that the App Store’s restrictions on business models prevented the emergence of truly innovative applications that would make the iPad into something more than a portable TV or an extremely frustrating Mac-replacement, and concluded:To be fair, would that we all could “fail” like the iPad; it was a $21 billion business last fiscal year, nearly as much as the Mac’s $26 billion. That, though, is why I did not call it a failure: the tragedy of the iPad is not that it flopped, it is that it never did, and likely never will, reach that potential so clearly seen ten years ago.Four years on, and I’m ready to throw in the towel on this take: the iPad is what it is, and I’m at peace with that — which raises the question of what is it?A Personal TV:If youvisit LG’s websitethey have a whole host of models ranging from top-of-the-line multi-thousand-dollar OLED TVs down to basic few-hundred-dollar LED TVs; all of these TVs show the same content, but the quality of the screens varies significantly, even amongst models that have the same resolution. So it is with the iPad line:iPad ProiPad AiriPadResolutionRetinaRetinaRetinaTypeTandem OLEDLEDLEDBrightness1000 nits600 nits500 nitsHDR max1600 nitsN/AN/AColor gamutP3P3sRGBLaminatedYesYesNoAntireflectiveYesYesNoPrice$1,299$799$349This is a pretty straightforward product lineup with basically the same segmentation you might encounter when shopping for a TV for your living room; to that end, that new Tandem OLED screen was one of the biggest and most important features of the presentation.A Digital Canvas:The most important addition Apple has made to the iPad over the last 14 years was not, as I once might have expected, subscription pricing in the App Store; rather it was the Apple Pencil. What is so important about the Apple Pencil (from a business perspective) is that it gives the iPad capabilities that don’t exist in any Apple device (and are very much top-of-the-line in terms of a portable artistic studio, at least according to my also-Wacom-tablet-owning daughter). This is the true “creative” story for the iPad: with an Apple Pencil you can do things you just can’t do on any other Apple device.A Simple Computer:From what I’ve seen there are three primary constituencies for the iPad-as-computer: children, retirees, and executives. These use cases are where the iPad’s iPhone roots work well. You can check your email, view photos, review documents, etc., all in an easy-to-carry device that doubles as personal entertainment on the couch, in the bed, or on a plane. Anyone that needs or wants to do more than that, though, is better served by a Mac (and I continue to maintain that “multi-tasking” has made the iPad worse for all of the above use cases).These obviously aren’t the only things people use iPads for — gaming and reading are two other obvious use cases — but the reason I highlight these three is that they give the iPad a reason to exist independent of any other devices; an iPad is simply better than an iPhone or a Mac at these specific use cases. No, they don’t represent the entirely new way of creating content that I envisioned, but I have to admit I never came up with any specific ideas myself that truly improved on the WIMP interface native to the Mac.More pertinently, my takeaway from this presentation is that Apple has come to a similar conclusion: in addition to the screen the other big feature was the new Apple Pencil Pro. Yes, there were new versions of Final Cut and Logic for iPad, but I’m not sold on either being competitive with what you can do on a Mac — but I’m glad the company is still experimenting. Indeed, the only part of the presentation that felt out of place was in fact the M4: the technical reason why it is in the iPad is interesting; the actual utility of it for what iPads are actually used for is confusing.As an analogy, there’s a reason why Apple doesn’t spend much time talking about the processor for the Apple Watch: after a couple of years of exploration the company realized the primary use cases were health-and-fitness and and notifications; to the extent a new processor matters it is because of increased efficiency, and, well, that was in fact the point they made most vociferously about the M4. If that helped make that incredibly sexy thin personal TV possible then that’s fine by me.Disney EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Disney said it is close to making its streaming business profitable, but its shares fell about 10% Tuesday after the company reported a loss and projected earnings growth that narrowly missed Wall Street expectations. The media company’s streaming unit lost $18 million in the March quarter, an improvement from a $659 million loss in the year-earlier quarter. Chief Executive Bob Iger said the company is on track to achieve streaming profitability in the final quarter of the fiscal year that ends in September…Disney is working to increase and deepen customer engagement with its streaming offerings, including by limiting password sharing, improving its recommendation engine and integrating a new Hulu tile into Disney+. Iger said that the company will add an ESPN tile to Disney+ before the end of the year.The biggest driver of Disney’s stock price decline appeared to be tempered growth in the company’s Experiences division, the linchpin of the company inits Taylor Swift era; for now I wanted to focus on one tidbit fromIger’s prepared remarks:In March, we successfully launched Hulu on Disney+, bringing extensive general entertainment content to the platform for bundle subscribers. And we’re encouraged by the early results. And by the end of this calendar year, we will be adding an ESPN tile to Disney+, giving all US subscribers access to select live games and studio programming within the Disney+ app. We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers, as we ready the launch of our enhanced standalone ESPN streaming service in the fall of 2025.For many yearsthe strategic considerations around TVwere about wresting control of Input1 away from the cable box; that battle ended up being a split decision between Roku, Fire TV, Chromecast, and Apple TV, but the real winner ended up being the TVs themselves: most people just use the apps on their devices. Or, to put it another way, to the extent the iPad is a personal TV is the extent to which TVs are iPads on the wall.Disney and other media companies were not necessarily a contestant in this fight, but they were losers: when Input1 was a cable box there was a barrier to entry, and the optimal strategy was to monopolize as many channels as possible; there is no barrier to entry for apps, which means the optimal strategy is to put all of your resources behind one app, not splitting your content up across multiple apps. In other words, when the cable bundle was tightly wound, there was freedom for Disney to spread out; now that everything is a marketplace fighting for a spot on the home screen, Disney is finding it optimal to bundle itself to the greatest extent possible.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedFrom Products to PlatformsDateThursday, September 10, 2015The Diminished iPadDateWednesday, October 15, 2014The Apple Vision Pro’s Missing AppsDateMonday, January 22, 2024←TSMC Earnings, TSMC’s Pricing Mistake, Intel v. TSMCAn Interview with Matthew Belloni About Hollywood’s Streaming Struggles→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Apple’s iPad Event, The Peaceful iPad, Disney EarningsWednesday, May 8, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,We releasedDitheringa day late so we could cover the iPad event and John’s hands-on experience. You can add the twice-a-week 15-minutes-an-episode podcast using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple’s iPad EventFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. unveiled a new artificial intelligence-focused iPad Pro and a larger iPad Air, aiming to reinvigorate a tablet lineup that has languished over the past two years. At an online launch event Tuesday dubbed “Let Loose,” the company introduced the first redesigned version of the iPad Pro since 2018. The new model is thinner, includes a crisper Ultra Retina XDR screen with OLED technology, and has a faster M4 chip that can handle AI tasks. The new iPad Air looks like the prior version, but with a larger screen-size option and the M2 processor. The new 13-inch iPad Pro has a depth of 5.1 millimeters, which the company said makes it the thinnest Apple product ever. The bigger version is a quarter-pound lighter than its predecessor, while the 11-inch model weighs under one pound.The unveiling ends Apple’s longest drought in new iPad releases since co-founder Steve Jobs first introduced the device in 2010. The lineup was previously updated October 2022, when Apple added a faster chip to the iPad Pro and rolled out a redesigned low-end model. Apple is looking to pull the iPad out of a severe slump. The device’s sales were particularly weak last quarter, when they plunged 17% and missed analysts’ estimates, but Apple predicted that iPad revenue would rebound in the current period.The most notable technical change to the iPad was the M4 chip in the iPad Pro; at first glance this might seem like a big surprise given that the M3 only came out last fall, and was, like every M-series chip before it, based on an iPhone chip that came first (the A17 Pro, in this case). Moreover, new M3-based MacBooks Air just launched two months ago, so why doesn’t the iPad Pro have an M3?The answer — contra Apple’s PR push to insinuate that AI is the driver — is something I wrote aboutlast fall: the A17 Pro and M3 are based on TSMC’s first 3nm process (N3B) which ended up being a dead-end as far as development goes. FromWikiChip Fuseback in 2022:The N3 node is weird. It is TSMC’s first 3-nanometer class process technology, but it won’t be the mainstream node everyone will utilize. In fact, it appears to be a one-off node that the company abandoned sometimes prior to rollout. It looks as if TSMC engineers encounter some roadblocks along the way and decided to change things mid-way. We say all of this because TSMC moved on to a whole different node this year called “N3E” which we discuss below. Most of the messaging at the Technology Symposium was about N3E with the original N3 node getting just a brief pass-by mention. The big takeaway here is that N3E is a very different node from N3. While the nitty-gritty node details have not been disclosed, at a high-level it has different PPAs along with what the company claims are “very different” design rules intended to improve yield. The result of this is that N3E will not offer any direct migration path from N3, making N3 sort of a dead-end node for designers which is why TSMC expects most customers to utilize N3E instead. So why N3 exist at all? The easiest explanation is to satisfy customers’ commitment to those early technology adopters. Long term, the initial N3 node will likely fade into obscurity.In short, Apple already waited a year longer than they wanted to for N3; they weren’t going to wait another year once TSMC decided to rework their fundamental approach to 3nm, which is why TSMC pushed forward with a process that had lower yields and an unclear path to further optimizations (this was part of the 3nm issues I referencedyesterday) so that Apple could have the aforementioned A17 Pro and M3 chip. At the same time, neither Apple nor TSMC want that line to run forever, and given the slower upgrade cycle for iPads, it makes a lot of sense to jump forward to TSMC’s newer and more scalable N3E node.So why the iPad Pro and not the MacBook Airs? I assume it simply comes down to volume — there probably aren’t enough M4 chips for Apple’s most popular computer line, whereas I assume that iPads Pro sell in much smaller volume — and the fact that Apple will almost certainly refresh the MacBooks Air sooner rather than later. My bet would be some time in the fall, after the next iPhone chip (which, by the way, may, for the first time in a while, go into both iPhones Pro and regular iPhones; I don’t expect the A17 Pro to drop down to the base model).The Peaceful iPadBack in 2020, on the occasion of the iPad’s 10th anniversary, I wrote an Article entitledThe Tragic iPad. My argument was that while the iPad had always been, and continued to be, a greatconsumptiondevice, it had always had the potential to be a great creation device as well; I hearkened back not only to the original iPad launch, with Steve Jobs sitting on a couch on stage, but also the launch of the iPad 2, particularly the iPad version of GarageBand.Jobs look of wonderment says more than his words:I’m blown away with this stuff. Playing your own instruments, or using the smart instruments, anyone can make music now, in something that is this thick and weights 1.3 pounds. It’s unbelievable…this is no toy. This is something you can use for real work.GarageBand, even more than iWork the year before, was the sort of app that was only possible on an iPad. Sure, it shared a name with its Mac counterpart, but the magic came from the fact that it had little else in common.And then Jobs died, and I’ve never been able to shake the sense that this particular vision of the iPad died with him.I then launched into one of mylongest-standing gripes: that the App Store’s restrictions on business models prevented the emergence of truly innovative applications that would make the iPad into something more than a portable TV or an extremely frustrating Mac-replacement, and concluded:To be fair, would that we all could “fail” like the iPad; it was a $21 billion business last fiscal year, nearly as much as the Mac’s $26 billion. That, though, is why I did not call it a failure: the tragedy of the iPad is not that it flopped, it is that it never did, and likely never will, reach that potential so clearly seen ten years ago.Four years on, and I’m ready to throw in the towel on this take: the iPad is what it is, and I’m at peace with that — which raises the question of what is it?A Personal TV:If youvisit LG’s websitethey have a whole host of models ranging from top-of-the-line multi-thousand-dollar OLED TVs down to basic few-hundred-dollar LED TVs; all of these TVs show the same content, but the quality of the screens varies significantly, even amongst models that have the same resolution. So it is with the iPad line:iPad ProiPad AiriPadResolutionRetinaRetinaRetinaTypeTandem OLEDLEDLEDBrightness1000 nits600 nits500 nitsHDR max1600 nitsN/AN/AColor gamutP3P3sRGBLaminatedYesYesNoAntireflectiveYesYesNoPrice$1,299$799$349This is a pretty straightforward product lineup with basically the same segmentation you might encounter when shopping for a TV for your living room; to that end, that new Tandem OLED screen was one of the biggest and most important features of the presentation.A Digital Canvas:The most important addition Apple has made to the iPad over the last 14 years was not, as I once might have expected, subscription pricing in the App Store; rather it was the Apple Pencil. What is so important about the Apple Pencil (from a business perspective) is that it gives the iPad capabilities that don’t exist in any Apple device (and are very much top-of-the-line in terms of a portable artistic studio, at least according to my also-Wacom-tablet-owning daughter). This is the true “creative” story for the iPad: with an Apple Pencil you can do things you just can’t do on any other Apple device.A Simple Computer:From what I’ve seen there are three primary constituencies for the iPad-as-computer: children, retirees, and executives. These use cases are where the iPad’s iPhone roots work well. You can check your email, view photos, review documents, etc., all in an easy-to-carry device that doubles as personal entertainment on the couch, in the bed, or on a plane. Anyone that needs or wants to do more than that, though, is better served by a Mac (and I continue to maintain that “multi-tasking” has made the iPad worse for all of the above use cases).These obviously aren’t the only things people use iPads for — gaming and reading are two other obvious use cases — but the reason I highlight these three is that they give the iPad a reason to exist independent of any other devices; an iPad is simply better than an iPhone or a Mac at these specific use cases. No, they don’t represent the entirely new way of creating content that I envisioned, but I have to admit I never came up with any specific ideas myself that truly improved on the WIMP interface native to the Mac.More pertinently, my takeaway from this presentation is that Apple has come to a similar conclusion: in addition to the screen the other big feature was the new Apple Pencil Pro. Yes, there were new versions of Final Cut and Logic for iPad, but I’m not sold on either being competitive with what you can do on a Mac — but I’m glad the company is still experimenting. Indeed, the only part of the presentation that felt out of place was in fact the M4: the technical reason why it is in the iPad is interesting; the actual utility of it for what iPads are actually used for is confusing.As an analogy, there’s a reason why Apple doesn’t spend much time talking about the processor for the Apple Watch: after a couple of years of exploration the company realized the primary use cases were health-and-fitness and and notifications; to the extent a new processor matters it is because of increased efficiency, and, well, that was in fact the point they made most vociferously about the M4. If that helped make that incredibly sexy thin personal TV possible then that’s fine by me.Disney EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Disney said it is close to making its streaming business profitable, but its shares fell about 10% Tuesday after the company reported a loss and projected earnings growth that narrowly missed Wall Street expectations. The media company’s streaming unit lost $18 million in the March quarter, an improvement from a $659 million loss in the year-earlier quarter. Chief Executive Bob Iger said the company is on track to achieve streaming profitability in the final quarter of the fiscal year that ends in September…Disney is working to increase and deepen customer engagement with its streaming offerings, including by limiting password sharing, improving its recommendation engine and integrating a new Hulu tile into Disney+. Iger said that the company will add an ESPN tile to Disney+ before the end of the year.The biggest driver of Disney’s stock price decline appeared to be tempered growth in the company’s Experiences division, the linchpin of the company inits Taylor Swift era; for now I wanted to focus on one tidbit fromIger’s prepared remarks:In March, we successfully launched Hulu on Disney+, bringing extensive general entertainment content to the platform for bundle subscribers. And we’re encouraged by the early results. And by the end of this calendar year, we will be adding an ESPN tile to Disney+, giving all US subscribers access to select live games and studio programming within the Disney+ app. We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers, as we ready the launch of our enhanced standalone ESPN streaming service in the fall of 2025.For many yearsthe strategic considerations around TVwere about wresting control of Input1 away from the cable box; that battle ended up being a split decision between Roku, Fire TV, Chromecast, and Apple TV, but the real winner ended up being the TVs themselves: most people just use the apps on their devices. Or, to put it another way, to the extent the iPad is a personal TV is the extent to which TVs are iPads on the wall.Disney and other media companies were not necessarily a contestant in this fight, but they were losers: when Input1 was a cable box there was a barrier to entry, and the optimal strategy was to monopolize as many channels as possible; there is no barrier to entry for apps, which means the optimal strategy is to put all of your resources behind one app, not splitting your content up across multiple apps. In other words, when the cable bundle was tightly wound, there was freedom for Disney to spread out; now that everything is a marketplace fighting for a spot on the home screen, Disney is finding it optimal to bundle itself to the greatest extent possible.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedFrom Products to PlatformsDateThursday, September 10, 2015The Diminished iPadDateWednesday, October 15, 2014The Apple Vision Pro’s Missing AppsDateMonday, January 22, 2024←TSMC Earnings, TSMC’s Pricing Mistake, Intel v. TSMCAn Interview with Matthew Belloni About Hollywood’s Streaming Struggles→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Apple’s iPad Event, The Peaceful iPad, Disney EarningsWednesday, May 8, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,We releasedDitheringa day late so we could cover the iPad event and John’s hands-on experience. You can add the twice-a-week 15-minutes-an-episode podcast using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple’s iPad EventFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. unveiled a new artificial intelligence-focused iPad Pro and a larger iPad Air, aiming to reinvigorate a tablet lineup that has languished over the past two years. At an online launch event Tuesday dubbed “Let Loose,” the company introduced the first redesigned version of the iPad Pro since 2018. The new model is thinner, includes a crisper Ultra Retina XDR screen with OLED technology, and has a faster M4 chip that can handle AI tasks. The new iPad Air looks like the prior version, but with a larger screen-size option and the M2 processor. The new 13-inch iPad Pro has a depth of 5.1 millimeters, which the company said makes it the thinnest Apple product ever. The bigger version is a quarter-pound lighter than its predecessor, while the 11-inch model weighs under one pound.The unveiling ends Apple’s longest drought in new iPad releases since co-founder Steve Jobs first introduced the device in 2010. The lineup was previously updated October 2022, when Apple added a faster chip to the iPad Pro and rolled out a redesigned low-end model. Apple is looking to pull the iPad out of a severe slump. The device’s sales were particularly weak last quarter, when they plunged 17% and missed analysts’ estimates, but Apple predicted that iPad revenue would rebound in the current period.The most notable technical change to the iPad was the M4 chip in the iPad Pro; at first glance this might seem like a big surprise given that the M3 only came out last fall, and was, like every M-series chip before it, based on an iPhone chip that came first (the A17 Pro, in this case). Moreover, new M3-based MacBooks Air just launched two months ago, so why doesn’t the iPad Pro have an M3?The answer — contra Apple’s PR push to insinuate that AI is the driver — is something I wrote aboutlast fall: the A17 Pro and M3 are based on TSMC’s first 3nm process (N3B) which ended up being a dead-end as far as development goes. FromWikiChip Fuseback in 2022:The N3 node is weird. It is TSMC’s first 3-nanometer class process technology, but it won’t be the mainstream node everyone will utilize. In fact, it appears to be a one-off node that the company abandoned sometimes prior to rollout. It looks as if TSMC engineers encounter some roadblocks along the way and decided to change things mid-way. We say all of this because TSMC moved on to a whole different node this year called “N3E” which we discuss below. Most of the messaging at the Technology Symposium was about N3E with the original N3 node getting just a brief pass-by mention. The big takeaway here is that N3E is a very different node from N3. While the nitty-gritty node details have not been disclosed, at a high-level it has different PPAs along with what the company claims are “very different” design rules intended to improve yield. The result of this is that N3E will not offer any direct migration path from N3, making N3 sort of a dead-end node for designers which is why TSMC expects most customers to utilize N3E instead. So why N3 exist at all? The easiest explanation is to satisfy customers’ commitment to those early technology adopters. Long term, the initial N3 node will likely fade into obscurity.In short, Apple already waited a year longer than they wanted to for N3; they weren’t going to wait another year once TSMC decided to rework their fundamental approach to 3nm, which is why TSMC pushed forward with a process that had lower yields and an unclear path to further optimizations (this was part of the 3nm issues I referencedyesterday) so that Apple could have the aforementioned A17 Pro and M3 chip. At the same time, neither Apple nor TSMC want that line to run forever, and given the slower upgrade cycle for iPads, it makes a lot of sense to jump forward to TSMC’s newer and more scalable N3E node.So why the iPad Pro and not the MacBook Airs? I assume it simply comes down to volume — there probably aren’t enough M4 chips for Apple’s most popular computer line, whereas I assume that iPads Pro sell in much smaller volume — and the fact that Apple will almost certainly refresh the MacBooks Air sooner rather than later. My bet would be some time in the fall, after the next iPhone chip (which, by the way, may, for the first time in a while, go into both iPhones Pro and regular iPhones; I don’t expect the A17 Pro to drop down to the base model).The Peaceful iPadBack in 2020, on the occasion of the iPad’s 10th anniversary, I wrote an Article entitledThe Tragic iPad. My argument was that while the iPad had always been, and continued to be, a greatconsumptiondevice, it had always had the potential to be a great creation device as well; I hearkened back not only to the original iPad launch, with Steve Jobs sitting on a couch on stage, but also the launch of the iPad 2, particularly the iPad version of GarageBand.Jobs look of wonderment says more than his words:I’m blown away with this stuff. Playing your own instruments, or using the smart instruments, anyone can make music now, in something that is this thick and weights 1.3 pounds. It’s unbelievable…this is no toy. This is something you can use for real work.GarageBand, even more than iWork the year before, was the sort of app that was only possible on an iPad. Sure, it shared a name with its Mac counterpart, but the magic came from the fact that it had little else in common.And then Jobs died, and I’ve never been able to shake the sense that this particular vision of the iPad died with him.I then launched into one of mylongest-standing gripes: that the App Store’s restrictions on business models prevented the emergence of truly innovative applications that would make the iPad into something more than a portable TV or an extremely frustrating Mac-replacement, and concluded:To be fair, would that we all could “fail” like the iPad; it was a $21 billion business last fiscal year, nearly as much as the Mac’s $26 billion. That, though, is why I did not call it a failure: the tragedy of the iPad is not that it flopped, it is that it never did, and likely never will, reach that potential so clearly seen ten years ago.Four years on, and I’m ready to throw in the towel on this take: the iPad is what it is, and I’m at peace with that — which raises the question of what is it?A Personal TV:If youvisit LG’s websitethey have a whole host of models ranging from top-of-the-line multi-thousand-dollar OLED TVs down to basic few-hundred-dollar LED TVs; all of these TVs show the same content, but the quality of the screens varies significantly, even amongst models that have the same resolution. So it is with the iPad line:iPad ProiPad AiriPadResolutionRetinaRetinaRetinaTypeTandem OLEDLEDLEDBrightness1000 nits600 nits500 nitsHDR max1600 nitsN/AN/AColor gamutP3P3sRGBLaminatedYesYesNoAntireflectiveYesYesNoPrice$1,299$799$349This is a pretty straightforward product lineup with basically the same segmentation you might encounter when shopping for a TV for your living room; to that end, that new Tandem OLED screen was one of the biggest and most important features of the presentation.A Digital Canvas:The most important addition Apple has made to the iPad over the last 14 years was not, as I once might have expected, subscription pricing in the App Store; rather it was the Apple Pencil. What is so important about the Apple Pencil (from a business perspective) is that it gives the iPad capabilities that don’t exist in any Apple device (and are very much top-of-the-line in terms of a portable artistic studio, at least according to my also-Wacom-tablet-owning daughter). This is the true “creative” story for the iPad: with an Apple Pencil you can do things you just can’t do on any other Apple device.A Simple Computer:From what I’ve seen there are three primary constituencies for the iPad-as-computer: children, retirees, and executives. These use cases are where the iPad’s iPhone roots work well. You can check your email, view photos, review documents, etc., all in an easy-to-carry device that doubles as personal entertainment on the couch, in the bed, or on a plane. Anyone that needs or wants to do more than that, though, is better served by a Mac (and I continue to maintain that “multi-tasking” has made the iPad worse for all of the above use cases).These obviously aren’t the only things people use iPads for — gaming and reading are two other obvious use cases — but the reason I highlight these three is that they give the iPad a reason to exist independent of any other devices; an iPad is simply better than an iPhone or a Mac at these specific use cases. No, they don’t represent the entirely new way of creating content that I envisioned, but I have to admit I never came up with any specific ideas myself that truly improved on the WIMP interface native to the Mac.More pertinently, my takeaway from this presentation is that Apple has come to a similar conclusion: in addition to the screen the other big feature was the new Apple Pencil Pro. Yes, there were new versions of Final Cut and Logic for iPad, but I’m not sold on either being competitive with what you can do on a Mac — but I’m glad the company is still experimenting. Indeed, the only part of the presentation that felt out of place was in fact the M4: the technical reason why it is in the iPad is interesting; the actual utility of it for what iPads are actually used for is confusing.As an analogy, there’s a reason why Apple doesn’t spend much time talking about the processor for the Apple Watch: after a couple of years of exploration the company realized the primary use cases were health-and-fitness and and notifications; to the extent a new processor matters it is because of increased efficiency, and, well, that was in fact the point they made most vociferously about the M4. If that helped make that incredibly sexy thin personal TV possible then that’s fine by me.Disney EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Disney said it is close to making its streaming business profitable, but its shares fell about 10% Tuesday after the company reported a loss and projected earnings growth that narrowly missed Wall Street expectations. The media company’s streaming unit lost $18 million in the March quarter, an improvement from a $659 million loss in the year-earlier quarter. Chief Executive Bob Iger said the company is on track to achieve streaming profitability in the final quarter of the fiscal year that ends in September…Disney is working to increase and deepen customer engagement with its streaming offerings, including by limiting password sharing, improving its recommendation engine and integrating a new Hulu tile into Disney+. Iger said that the company will add an ESPN tile to Disney+ before the end of the year.The biggest driver of Disney’s stock price decline appeared to be tempered growth in the company’s Experiences division, the linchpin of the company inits Taylor Swift era; for now I wanted to focus on one tidbit fromIger’s prepared remarks:In March, we successfully launched Hulu on Disney+, bringing extensive general entertainment content to the platform for bundle subscribers. And we’re encouraged by the early results. And by the end of this calendar year, we will be adding an ESPN tile to Disney+, giving all US subscribers access to select live games and studio programming within the Disney+ app. We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers, as we ready the launch of our enhanced standalone ESPN streaming service in the fall of 2025.For many yearsthe strategic considerations around TVwere about wresting control of Input1 away from the cable box; that battle ended up being a split decision between Roku, Fire TV, Chromecast, and Apple TV, but the real winner ended up being the TVs themselves: most people just use the apps on their devices. Or, to put it another way, to the extent the iPad is a personal TV is the extent to which TVs are iPads on the wall.Disney and other media companies were not necessarily a contestant in this fight, but they were losers: when Input1 was a cable box there was a barrier to entry, and the optimal strategy was to monopolize as many channels as possible; there is no barrier to entry for apps, which means the optimal strategy is to put all of your resources behind one app, not splitting your content up across multiple apps. In other words, when the cable bundle was tightly wound, there was freedom for Disney to spread out; now that everything is a marketplace fighting for a spot on the home screen, Disney is finding it optimal to bundle itself to the greatest extent possible.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedFrom Products to PlatformsDateThursday, September 10, 2015The Diminished iPadDateWednesday, October 15, 2014The Apple Vision Pro’s Missing AppsDateMonday, January 22, 2024←TSMC Earnings, TSMC’s Pricing Mistake, Intel v. TSMCAn Interview with Matthew Belloni About Hollywood’s Streaming Struggles→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,We releasedDitheringa day late so we could cover the iPad event and John’s hands-on experience. You can add the twice-a-week 15-minutes-an-episode podcast using the link at the bottom of this email.On to the Update:Apple’s iPad EventFromBloomberg:Apple Inc. unveiled a new artificial intelligence-focused iPad Pro and a larger iPad Air, aiming to reinvigorate a tablet lineup that has languished over the past two years. At an online launch event Tuesday dubbed “Let Loose,” the company introduced the first redesigned version of the iPad Pro since 2018. The new model is thinner, includes a crisper Ultra Retina XDR screen with OLED technology, and has a faster M4 chip that can handle AI tasks. The new iPad Air looks like the prior version, but with a larger screen-size option and the M2 processor. The new 13-inch iPad Pro has a depth of 5.1 millimeters, which the company said makes it the thinnest Apple product ever. The bigger version is a quarter-pound lighter than its predecessor, while the 11-inch model weighs under one pound.The unveiling ends Apple’s longest drought in new iPad releases since co-founder Steve Jobs first introduced the device in 2010. The lineup was previously updated October 2022, when Apple added a faster chip to the iPad Pro and rolled out a redesigned low-end model. Apple is looking to pull the iPad out of a severe slump. The device’s sales were particularly weak last quarter, when they plunged 17% and missed analysts’ estimates, but Apple predicted that iPad revenue would rebound in the current period.The most notable technical change to the iPad was the M4 chip in the iPad Pro; at first glance this might seem like a big surprise given that the M3 only came out last fall, and was, like every M-series chip before it, based on an iPhone chip that came first (the A17 Pro, in this case). Moreover, new M3-based MacBooks Air just launched two months ago, so why doesn’t the iPad Pro have an M3?The answer — contra Apple’s PR push to insinuate that AI is the driver — is something I wrote aboutlast fall: the A17 Pro and M3 are based on TSMC’s first 3nm process (N3B) which ended up being a dead-end as far as development goes. FromWikiChip Fuseback in 2022:The N3 node is weird. It is TSMC’s first 3-nanometer class process technology, but it won’t be the mainstream node everyone will utilize. In fact, it appears to be a one-off node that the company abandoned sometimes prior to rollout. It looks as if TSMC engineers encounter some roadblocks along the way and decided to change things mid-way. We say all of this because TSMC moved on to a whole different node this year called “N3E” which we discuss below. Most of the messaging at the Technology Symposium was about N3E with the original N3 node getting just a brief pass-by mention. The big takeaway here is that N3E is a very different node from N3. While the nitty-gritty node details have not been disclosed, at a high-level it has different PPAs along with what the company claims are “very different” design rules intended to improve yield. The result of this is that N3E will not offer any direct migration path from N3, making N3 sort of a dead-end node for designers which is why TSMC expects most customers to utilize N3E instead. So why N3 exist at all? The easiest explanation is to satisfy customers’ commitment to those early technology adopters. Long term, the initial N3 node will likely fade into obscurity.In short, Apple already waited a year longer than they wanted to for N3; they weren’t going to wait another year once TSMC decided to rework their fundamental approach to 3nm, which is why TSMC pushed forward with a process that had lower yields and an unclear path to further optimizations (this was part of the 3nm issues I referencedyesterday) so that Apple could have the aforementioned A17 Pro and M3 chip. At the same time, neither Apple nor TSMC want that line to run forever, and given the slower upgrade cycle for iPads, it makes a lot of sense to jump forward to TSMC’s newer and more scalable N3E node.So why the iPad Pro and not the MacBook Airs? I assume it simply comes down to volume — there probably aren’t enough M4 chips for Apple’s most popular computer line, whereas I assume that iPads Pro sell in much smaller volume — and the fact that Apple will almost certainly refresh the MacBooks Air sooner rather than later. My bet would be some time in the fall, after the next iPhone chip (which, by the way, may, for the first time in a while, go into both iPhones Pro and regular iPhones; I don’t expect the A17 Pro to drop down to the base model).The Peaceful iPadBack in 2020, on the occasion of the iPad’s 10th anniversary, I wrote an Article entitledThe Tragic iPad. My argument was that while the iPad had always been, and continued to be, a greatconsumptiondevice, it had always had the potential to be a great creation device as well; I hearkened back not only to the original iPad launch, with Steve Jobs sitting on a couch on stage, but also the launch of the iPad 2, particularly the iPad version of GarageBand.Jobs look of wonderment says more than his words:I’m blown away with this stuff. Playing your own instruments, or using the smart instruments, anyone can make music now, in something that is this thick and weights 1.3 pounds. It’s unbelievable…this is no toy. This is something you can use for real work.GarageBand, even more than iWork the year before, was the sort of app that was only possible on an iPad. Sure, it shared a name with its Mac counterpart, but the magic came from the fact that it had little else in common.And then Jobs died, and I’ve never been able to shake the sense that this particular vision of the iPad died with him.I then launched into one of mylongest-standing gripes: that the App Store’s restrictions on business models prevented the emergence of truly innovative applications that would make the iPad into something more than a portable TV or an extremely frustrating Mac-replacement, and concluded:To be fair, would that we all could “fail” like the iPad; it was a $21 billion business last fiscal year, nearly as much as the Mac’s $26 billion. That, though, is why I did not call it a failure: the tragedy of the iPad is not that it flopped, it is that it never did, and likely never will, reach that potential so clearly seen ten years ago.Four years on, and I’m ready to throw in the towel on this take: the iPad is what it is, and I’m at peace with that — which raises the question of what is it?A Personal TV:If youvisit LG’s websitethey have a whole host of models ranging from top-of-the-line multi-thousand-dollar OLED TVs down to basic few-hundred-dollar LED TVs; all of these TVs show the same content, but the quality of the screens varies significantly, even amongst models that have the same resolution. So it is with the iPad line:iPad ProiPad AiriPadResolutionRetinaRetinaRetinaTypeTandem OLEDLEDLEDBrightness1000 nits600 nits500 nitsHDR max1600 nitsN/AN/AColor gamutP3P3sRGBLaminatedYesYesNoAntireflectiveYesYesNoPrice$1,299$799$349This is a pretty straightforward product lineup with basically the same segmentation you might encounter when shopping for a TV for your living room; to that end, that new Tandem OLED screen was one of the biggest and most important features of the presentation.A Digital Canvas:The most important addition Apple has made to the iPad over the last 14 years was not, as I once might have expected, subscription pricing in the App Store; rather it was the Apple Pencil. What is so important about the Apple Pencil (from a business perspective) is that it gives the iPad capabilities that don’t exist in any Apple device (and are very much top-of-the-line in terms of a portable artistic studio, at least according to my also-Wacom-tablet-owning daughter). This is the true “creative” story for the iPad: with an Apple Pencil you can do things you just can’t do on any other Apple device.A Simple Computer:From what I’ve seen there are three primary constituencies for the iPad-as-computer: children, retirees, and executives. These use cases are where the iPad’s iPhone roots work well. You can check your email, view photos, review documents, etc., all in an easy-to-carry device that doubles as personal entertainment on the couch, in the bed, or on a plane. Anyone that needs or wants to do more than that, though, is better served by a Mac (and I continue to maintain that “multi-tasking” has made the iPad worse for all of the above use cases).These obviously aren’t the only things people use iPads for — gaming and reading are two other obvious use cases — but the reason I highlight these three is that they give the iPad a reason to exist independent of any other devices; an iPad is simply better than an iPhone or a Mac at these specific use cases. No, they don’t represent the entirely new way of creating content that I envisioned, but I have to admit I never came up with any specific ideas myself that truly improved on the WIMP interface native to the Mac.More pertinently, my takeaway from this presentation is that Apple has come to a similar conclusion: in addition to the screen the other big feature was the new Apple Pencil Pro. Yes, there were new versions of Final Cut and Logic for iPad, but I’m not sold on either being competitive with what you can do on a Mac — but I’m glad the company is still experimenting. Indeed, the only part of the presentation that felt out of place was in fact the M4: the technical reason why it is in the iPad is interesting; the actual utility of it for what iPads are actually used for is confusing.As an analogy, there’s a reason why Apple doesn’t spend much time talking about the processor for the Apple Watch: after a couple of years of exploration the company realized the primary use cases were health-and-fitness and and notifications; to the extent a new processor matters it is because of increased efficiency, and, well, that was in fact the point they made most vociferously about the M4. If that helped make that incredibly sexy thin personal TV possible then that’s fine by me.Disney EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Disney said it is close to making its streaming business profitable, but its shares fell about 10% Tuesday after the company reported a loss and projected earnings growth that narrowly missed Wall Street expectations. The media company’s streaming unit lost $18 million in the March quarter, an improvement from a $659 million loss in the year-earlier quarter. Chief Executive Bob Iger said the company is on track to achieve streaming profitability in the final quarter of the fiscal year that ends in September…Disney is working to increase and deepen customer engagement with its streaming offerings, including by limiting password sharing, improving its recommendation engine and integrating a new Hulu tile into Disney+. Iger said that the company will add an ESPN tile to Disney+ before the end of the year.The biggest driver of Disney’s stock price decline appeared to be tempered growth in the company’s Experiences division, the linchpin of the company inits Taylor Swift era; for now I wanted to focus on one tidbit fromIger’s prepared remarks:In March, we successfully launched Hulu on Disney+, bringing extensive general entertainment content to the platform for bundle subscribers. And we’re encouraged by the early results. And by the end of this calendar year, we will be adding an ESPN tile to Disney+, giving all US subscribers access to select live games and studio programming within the Disney+ app. We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers, as we ready the launch of our enhanced standalone ESPN streaming service in the fall of 2025.For many yearsthe strategic considerations around TVwere about wresting control of Input1 away from the cable box; that battle ended up being a split decision between Roku, Fire TV, Chromecast, and Apple TV, but the real winner ended up being the TVs themselves: most people just use the apps on their devices. Or, to put it another way, to the extent the iPad is a personal TV is the extent to which TVs are iPads on the wall.Disney and other media companies were not necessarily a contestant in this fight, but they were losers: when Input1 was a cable box there was a barrier to entry, and the optimal strategy was to monopolize as many channels as possible; there is no barrier to entry for apps, which means the optimal strategy is to put all of your resources behind one app, not splitting your content up across multiple apps. In other words, when the cable bundle was tightly wound, there was freedom for Disney to spread out; now that everything is a marketplace fighting for a spot on the home screen, Disney is finding it optimal to bundle itself to the greatest extent possible.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Apple Inc. unveiled a new artificial intelligence-focused iPad Pro and a larger iPad Air, aiming to reinvigorate a tablet lineup that has languished over the past two years. At an online launch event Tuesday dubbed “Let Loose,” the company introduced the first redesigned version of the iPad Pro since 2018. The new model is thinner, includes a crisper Ultra Retina XDR screen with OLED technology, and has a faster M4 chip that can handle AI tasks. The new iPad Air looks like the prior version, but with a larger screen-size option and the M2 processor. The new 13-inch iPad Pro has a depth of 5.1 millimeters, which the company said makes it the thinnest Apple product ever. The bigger version is a quarter-pound lighter than its predecessor, while the 11-inch model weighs under one pound. The unveiling ends Apple’s longest drought in new iPad releases since co-founder Steve Jobs first introduced the device in 2010. The lineup was previously updated October 2022, when Apple added a faster chip to the iPad Pro and rolled out a redesigned low-end model. Apple is looking to pull the iPad out of a severe slump. The device’s sales were particularly weak last quarter, when they plunged 17% and missed analysts’ estimates, but Apple predicted that iPad revenue would rebound in the current period. The most notable technical change to the iPad was the M4 chip in the iPad Pro; at first glance this might seem like a big surprise given that the M3 only came out last fall, and was, like every M-series chip before it, based on an iPhone chip that came first (the A17 Pro, in this case). Moreover, new M3-based MacBooks Air just launched two months ago, so why doesn’t the iPad Pro have an M3? The answer — contra Apple’s PR push to insinuate that AI is the driver — is something I wrote aboutlast fall: the A17 Pro and M3 are based on TSMC’s first 3nm process (N3B) which ended up being a dead-end as far as development goes. FromWikiChip Fuseback in 2022: The N3 node is weird. It is TSMC’s first 3-nanometer class process technology, but it won’t be the mainstream node everyone will utilize. In fact, it appears to be a one-off node that the company abandoned sometimes prior to rollout. It looks as if TSMC engineers encounter some roadblocks along the way and decided to change things mid-way. We say all of this because TSMC moved on to a whole different node this year called “N3E” which we discuss below. Most of the messaging at the Technology Symposium was about N3E with the original N3 node getting just a brief pass-by mention. The big takeaway here is that N3E is a very different node from N3. While the nitty-gritty node details have not been disclosed, at a high-level it has different PPAs along with what the company claims are “very different” design rules intended to improve yield. The result of this is that N3E will not offer any direct migration path from N3, making N3 sort of a dead-end node for designers which is why TSMC expects most customers to utilize N3E instead. So why N3 exist at all? The easiest explanation is to satisfy customers’ commitment to those early technology adopters. Long term, the initial N3 node will likely fade into obscurity. In short, Apple already waited a year longer than they wanted to for N3; they weren’t going to wait another year once TSMC decided to rework their fundamental approach to 3nm, which is why TSMC pushed forward with a process that had lower yields and an unclear path to further optimizations (this was part of the 3nm issues I referencedyesterday) so that Apple could have the aforementioned A17 Pro and M3 chip. At the same time, neither Apple nor TSMC want that line to run forever, and given the slower upgrade cycle for iPads, it makes a lot of sense to jump forward to TSMC’s newer and more scalable N3E node. So why the iPad Pro and not the MacBook Airs? I assume it simply comes down to volume — there probably aren’t enough M4 chips for Apple’s most popular computer line, whereas I assume that iPads Pro sell in much smaller volume — and the fact that Apple will almost certainly refresh the MacBooks Air sooner rather than later. My bet would be some time in the fall, after the next iPhone chip (which, by the way, may, for the first time in a while, go into both iPhones Pro and regular iPhones; I don’t expect the A17 Pro to drop down to the base model). Back in 2020, on the occasion of the iPad’s 10th anniversary, I wrote an Article entitledThe Tragic iPad. My argument was that while the iPad had always been, and continued to be, a greatconsumptiondevice, it had always had the potential to be a great creation device as well; I hearkened back not only to the original iPad launch, with Steve Jobs sitting on a couch on stage, but also the launch of the iPad 2, particularly the iPad version of GarageBand. I’m blown away with this stuff. Playing your own instruments, or using the smart instruments, anyone can make music now, in something that is this thick and weights 1.3 pounds. It’s unbelievable…this is no toy. This is something you can use for real work. GarageBand, even more than iWork the year before, was the sort of app that was only possible on an iPad. Sure, it shared a name with its Mac counterpart, but the magic came from the fact that it had little else in common. I then launched into one of mylongest-standing gripes: that the App Store’s restrictions on business models prevented the emergence of truly innovative applications that would make the iPad into something more than a portable TV or an extremely frustrating Mac-replacement, and concluded: To be fair, would that we all could “fail” like the iPad; it was a $21 billion business last fiscal year, nearly as much as the Mac’s $26 billion. That, though, is why I did not call it a failure: the tragedy of the iPad is not that it flopped, it is that it never did, and likely never will, reach that potential so clearly seen ten years ago. A Personal TV:If youvisit LG’s websitethey have a whole host of models ranging from top-of-the-line multi-thousand-dollar OLED TVs down to basic few-hundred-dollar LED TVs; all of these TVs show the same content, but the quality of the screens varies significantly, even amongst models that have the same resolution. So it is with the iPad line: This is a pretty straightforward product lineup with basically the same segmentation you might encounter when shopping for a TV for your living room; to that end, that new Tandem OLED screen was one of the biggest and most important features of the presentation. A Digital Canvas:The most important addition Apple has made to the iPad over the last 14 years was not, as I once might have expected, subscription pricing in the App Store; rather it was the Apple Pencil. What is so important about the Apple Pencil (from a business perspective) is that it gives the iPad capabilities that don’t exist in any Apple device (and are very much top-of-the-line in terms of a portable artistic studio, at least according to my also-Wacom-tablet-owning daughter). This is the true “creative” story for the iPad: with an Apple Pencil you can do things you just can’t do on any other Apple device. A Simple Computer:From what I’ve seen there are three primary constituencies for the iPad-as-computer: children, retirees, and executives. These use cases are where the iPad’s iPhone roots work well. You can check your email, view photos, review documents, etc., all in an easy-to-carry device that doubles as personal entertainment on the couch, in the bed, or on a plane. Anyone that needs or wants to do more than that, though, is better served by a Mac (and I continue to maintain that “multi-tasking” has made the iPad worse for all of the above use cases). These obviously aren’t the only things people use iPads for — gaming and reading are two other obvious use cases — but the reason I highlight these three is that they give the iPad a reason to exist independent of any other devices; an iPad is simply better than an iPhone or a Mac at these specific use cases. No, they don’t represent the entirely new way of creating content that I envisioned, but I have to admit I never came up with any specific ideas myself that truly improved on the WIMP interface native to the Mac. More pertinently, my takeaway from this presentation is that Apple has come to a similar conclusion: in addition to the screen the other big feature was the new Apple Pencil Pro. Yes, there were new versions of Final Cut and Logic for iPad, but I’m not sold on either being competitive with what you can do on a Mac — but I’m glad the company is still experimenting. Indeed, the only part of the presentation that felt out of place was in fact the M4: the technical reason why it is in the iPad is interesting; the actual utility of it for what iPads are actually used for is confusing. As an analogy, there’s a reason why Apple doesn’t spend much time talking about the processor for the Apple Watch: after a couple of years of exploration the company realized the primary use cases were health-and-fitness and and notifications; to the extent a new processor matters it is because of increased efficiency, and, well, that was in fact the point they made most vociferously about the M4. If that helped make that incredibly sexy thin personal TV possible then that’s fine by me. Disney said it is close to making its streaming business profitable, but its shares fell about 10% Tuesday after the company reported a loss and projected earnings growth that narrowly missed Wall Street expectations. The media company’s streaming unit lost $18 million in the March quarter, an improvement from a $659 million loss in the year-earlier quarter. Chief Executive Bob Iger said the company is on track to achieve streaming profitability in the final quarter of the fiscal year that ends in September… Disney is working to increase and deepen customer engagement with its streaming offerings, including by limiting password sharing, improving its recommendation engine and integrating a new Hulu tile into Disney+. Iger said that the company will add an ESPN tile to Disney+ before the end of the year. The biggest driver of Disney’s stock price decline appeared to be tempered growth in the company’s Experiences division, the linchpin of the company inits Taylor Swift era; for now I wanted to focus on one tidbit fromIger’s prepared remarks: In March, we successfully launched Hulu on Disney+, bringing extensive general entertainment content to the platform for bundle subscribers. And we’re encouraged by the early results. And by the end of this calendar year, we will be adding an ESPN tile to Disney+, giving all US subscribers access to select live games and studio programming within the Disney+ app. We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers, as we ready the launch of our enhanced standalone ESPN streaming service in the fall of 2025. For many yearsthe strategic considerations around TVwere about wresting control of Input1 away from the cable box; that battle ended up being a split decision between Roku, Fire TV, Chromecast, and Apple TV, but the real winner ended up being the TVs themselves: most people just use the apps on their devices. Or, to put it another way, to the extent the iPad is a personal TV is the extent to which TVs are iPads on the wall. Disney and other media companies were not necessarily a contestant in this fight, but they were losers: when Input1 was a cable box there was a barrier to entry, and the optimal strategy was to monopolize as many channels as possible; there is no barrier to entry for apps, which means the optimal strategy is to put all of your resources behind one app, not splitting your content up across multiple apps. In other words, when the cable bundle was tightly wound, there was freedom for Disney to spread out; now that everything is a marketplace fighting for a spot on the home screen, Disney is finding it optimal to bundle itself to the greatest extent possible. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025