# [PODCAST] A man, a plan, wind power, Uruguay

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/10/06/1197954251/uruguay-green-energy-carbon-emissions-climate-change
**Atlas ID**: 229485
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.845211

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Uruguay's power grid runs on 98% green energy. Here's how it got there : Planet MoneyIn 2007, Uruguay had a massive problem with no obvious fix. The economy of this country of 3.5 million people was growing, but there wasn't enough energy to power all that growth.Ramón Méndez Galain was, at the time, a particle physicist, but he wanted to apply his scientific mind to this issue. He started researching different energy sources and eventually wrote up a plan for how Uruguay's power grid could transition to renewable energy. It would be better for the climate, and, he thought, in the long run it would be the most economical choice Uruguay could make.Méndez Galain shared his plan online and in a series of informal lectures. Then, one day he received a phone call from the office of the president of Uruguay, inviting him to put his plan into action.Countries all over the world have announced lofty goals to reduce the emissions that cause climate change. But Uruguay actually did it. In a typical year, 98% of Uruguay's grid is powered by green energy. How did it get there? It involved a scientist, an innovative approach to infrastructure funding, and a whole lot of wind.Today's show was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aroncyzk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and edited by Keith Romer. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. NPR's Climate Solutions WeekJune 9-15:How does climate change affect where and how we live?  The energy used to operate buildings results in more than a fourth of global carbon dioxide pollution. And climate change threatens communities with risks like floods and wildfire. So NPR is dedicating a week to stories about climate change solutions for living and building on a hotter planet.2025: Rethinking Home2024: The Future of Food2023: Search for SolutionsAll Climate coverageNPRLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkHow did Uruguay cut carbon emissions? The answer is blowing in the windOctober 6, 20232:48 PM ETByErika Beras,Amanda Aronczyk,Keith Romer,Willa RubinHow did Uruguay cut carbon emissions? The answer is blowing in the windListen·23:0523:05TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954251/1204288797" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageRamón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRRamón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRBack in 2007, Uruguay had a massive problem with no obvious fix. The economy of this country of 3.5 million people was growing, but there wasn't enough energy to power all that growth. There was energy rationing, and people's power bills kept going up."It was difficult for us to cope," Ramón Méndez Galain remembers. "It was difficult to get electricity. For some time, we were beginning to have blackouts."Méndez Galain had trained as a particle physicist. "When you are trained as a scientist," he says, "you are trained to see an unsolved problem, and [to try] to find an explanation and a solution. So I used, if you wish, my scientific skills I had developed in order to face this difficulty with the same strategy."Sponsor MessageHe started researching different potential paths for Uruguay's energy future and reaching out to experts he knew around the world. Ultimately, he wrote up an entire plan for how Uruguay could change its energy mix so that it relied almost entirely on renewable energy. There would be less pollution, it would be better for the climate, and, he thought, in the long run, it would be the most economical choice Uruguay could make.And then one day, Méndez Galain received a phone call in his office.Enlarge this imageRamón Méndez Galain in his living room in Montevideo.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRRamón Méndez Galain in his living room in Montevideo.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR"He said, 'Oh, hi Ramón," Méndez Galain recalls. "I've been reading what you said. I'm talking with the president, and we wanted you to implement that strategy.'"The president of Uruguay had seen Méndez Galain's plan and was now inviting him to become Uruguay's new national director of energy. Méndez Galain accepted.Countries all over the world have spent the last decade announcing lofty goals to reduce the emissions that cause climate change. In the United States, President Biden has set a goal to reach100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035. But Uruguay has almost reached that goal already. In a typical year,98% of Uruguay's grid is powered by green energy.Sponsor MessageMéndez Galain's plan was built around two simple facts about his country. First, while there wasn't a domestic supply of fossil fuels like coal or oil, there was a great deal of wind. Second, that wind blew over a country that was, to a great extent, composed of uninhabited agricultural land. His vision for Uruguay's energy future was to cover that empty land with hundreds of wind turbines.Enlarge this imageToday, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRToday, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRTo solve the question of how to pay for all those turbines, Méndez Galain came up with a variation on an approach used by some electric utilities in neighboring Brazil. Those utilities were run via public-private partnerships, in which the utilities handled energy generation, while private companies were in charge of power distribution and customer service. Méndez Galain's scheme involved reversing that relationship, so that private companies would be in charge of setting up and maintaining the wind turbines that would power Uruguay's grid, while the public utility would continue to distribute that energy to its customersHis scheme had the built-in advantage of pushing the billions of dollars in upfront cost to construct all those wind turbines onto the private companies. In exchange, the public utility would agree to buy all the energy those turbines produced at a set rate for 20 years."Investors need to have the security that their investment will be paid back," explains Méndez Galain, "and for that they need a certain amount of time."In 2009, Uruguay started holding auctions in which different wind companies from around the world came to bid on how cheaply they'd sell renewable energy to the country.In 2011, Uruguay held an auction intended to secure 150 megawatts of new wind power, which would have represented about 5% of the country's energy generating capacity. After more than 20 different companies threw in their bids, Méndez Galain and his team decided to radically accelerate their timeline for the country's energy transition.Sponsor MessageThey accepted far more bids than they had originally planned, signing contracts that increased Uruguay's capacity to generate electricity not by 5%, but by more than 40%.Planet MoneyEmission ImpossibleWithin a few years of Méndez Galain receiving that phone call inviting him to become the national director of energy, he had achieved what he had set out to do. Uruguay's energy grid was powered almost exclusively by domestically created, renewable energy, and, adjusted for inflation, consumer prices had gone down. Today, there are more than 700 wind turbines installed across Uruguay's countryside."It was absolutely a complete transformation," says Méndez Galain. "So many people talk about what happened as an Uruguayan energy revolution. Because really it was a revolution."Today's show was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aroncyzk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and edited by Keith Romer. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Loading...Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Audio Network - "Fruit Salad," "Caviar," and "Star Alignment"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor June 9-15:How does climate change affect where and how we live?  The energy used to operate buildings results in more than a fourth of global carbon dioxide pollution. And climate change threatens communities with risks like floods and wildfire. So NPR is dedicating a week to stories about climate change solutions for living and building on a hotter planet.2025: Rethinking Home2024: The Future of Food2023: Search for SolutionsAll Climate coverage June 9-15:How does climate change affect where and how we live?  The energy used to operate buildings results in more than a fourth of global carbon dioxide pollution. And climate change threatens communities with risks like floods and wildfire. So NPR is dedicating a week to stories about climate change solutions for living and building on a hotter planet.2025: Rethinking Home2024: The Future of Food2023: Search for SolutionsAll Climate coverage June 9-15:How does climate change affect where and how we live?  The energy used to operate buildings results in more than a fourth of global carbon dioxide pollution. And climate change threatens communities with risks like floods and wildfire. So NPR is dedicating a week to stories about climate change solutions for living and building on a hotter planet. June 9-15:How does climate change affect where and how we live?  The energy used to operate buildings results in more than a fourth of global carbon dioxide pollution. And climate change threatens communities with risks like floods and wildfire. So NPR is dedicating a week to stories about climate change solutions for living and building on a hotter planet. How did Uruguay cut carbon emissions? The answer is blowing in the windListen·23:0523:05TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954251/1204288797" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript How did Uruguay cut carbon emissions? The answer is blowing in the windListen·23:0523:05TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954251/1204288797" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954251/1204288797" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageRamón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRRamón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRBack in 2007, Uruguay had a massive problem with no obvious fix. The economy of this country of 3.5 million people was growing, but there wasn't enough energy to power all that growth. There was energy rationing, and people's power bills kept going up."It was difficult for us to cope," Ramón Méndez Galain remembers. "It was difficult to get electricity. For some time, we were beginning to have blackouts."Méndez Galain had trained as a particle physicist. "When you are trained as a scientist," he says, "you are trained to see an unsolved problem, and [to try] to find an explanation and a solution. So I used, if you wish, my scientific skills I had developed in order to face this difficulty with the same strategy."Sponsor MessageHe started researching different potential paths for Uruguay's energy future and reaching out to experts he knew around the world. Ultimately, he wrote up an entire plan for how Uruguay could change its energy mix so that it relied almost entirely on renewable energy. There would be less pollution, it would be better for the climate, and, he thought, in the long run, it would be the most economical choice Uruguay could make.And then one day, Méndez Galain received a phone call in his office.Enlarge this imageRamón Méndez Galain in his living room in Montevideo.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRRamón Méndez Galain in his living room in Montevideo.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR"He said, 'Oh, hi Ramón," Méndez Galain recalls. "I've been reading what you said. I'm talking with the president, and we wanted you to implement that strategy.'"The president of Uruguay had seen Méndez Galain's plan and was now inviting him to become Uruguay's new national director of energy. Méndez Galain accepted.Countries all over the world have spent the last decade announcing lofty goals to reduce the emissions that cause climate change. In the United States, President Biden has set a goal to reach100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035. But Uruguay has almost reached that goal already. In a typical year,98% of Uruguay's grid is powered by green energy.Sponsor MessageMéndez Galain's plan was built around two simple facts about his country. First, while there wasn't a domestic supply of fossil fuels like coal or oil, there was a great deal of wind. Second, that wind blew over a country that was, to a great extent, composed of uninhabited agricultural land. His vision for Uruguay's energy future was to cover that empty land with hundreds of wind turbines.Enlarge this imageToday, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRToday, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRTo solve the question of how to pay for all those turbines, Méndez Galain came up with a variation on an approach used by some electric utilities in neighboring Brazil. Those utilities were run via public-private partnerships, in which the utilities handled energy generation, while private companies were in charge of power distribution and customer service. Méndez Galain's scheme involved reversing that relationship, so that private companies would be in charge of setting up and maintaining the wind turbines that would power Uruguay's grid, while the public utility would continue to distribute that energy to its customersHis scheme had the built-in advantage of pushing the billions of dollars in upfront cost to construct all those wind turbines onto the private companies. In exchange, the public utility would agree to buy all the energy those turbines produced at a set rate for 20 years."Investors need to have the security that their investment will be paid back," explains Méndez Galain, "and for that they need a certain amount of time."In 2009, Uruguay started holding auctions in which different wind companies from around the world came to bid on how cheaply they'd sell renewable energy to the country.In 2011, Uruguay held an auction intended to secure 150 megawatts of new wind power, which would have represented about 5% of the country's energy generating capacity. After more than 20 different companies threw in their bids, Méndez Galain and his team decided to radically accelerate their timeline for the country's energy transition.Sponsor MessageThey accepted far more bids than they had originally planned, signing contracts that increased Uruguay's capacity to generate electricity not by 5%, but by more than 40%.Planet MoneyEmission ImpossibleWithin a few years of Méndez Galain receiving that phone call inviting him to become the national director of energy, he had achieved what he had set out to do. Uruguay's energy grid was powered almost exclusively by domestically created, renewable energy, and, adjusted for inflation, consumer prices had gone down. Today, there are more than 700 wind turbines installed across Uruguay's countryside."It was absolutely a complete transformation," says Méndez Galain. "So many people talk about what happened as an Uruguayan energy revolution. Because really it was a revolution."Today's show was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aroncyzk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and edited by Keith Romer. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Loading...Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Audio Network - "Fruit Salad," "Caviar," and "Star Alignment" Enlarge this imageRamón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRRamón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPR Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide caption Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide caption Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Ramón Méndez Galain was Uruguay's National Director of Energy from 2008 to 2015. His plan for the energy sector led to 98% of Uruguay's grid being powered by green energy. And a good deal of that comes from wind energy — from turbines like those behind him. Back in 2007, Uruguay had a massive problem with no obvious fix. The economy of this country of 3.5 million people was growing, but there wasn't enough energy to power all that growth. There was energy rationing, and people's power bills kept going up. Méndez Galain had trained as a particle physicist. "When you are trained as a scientist," he says, "you are trained to see an unsolved problem, and [to try] to find an explanation and a solution. So I used, if you wish, my scientific skills I had developed in order to face this difficulty with the same strategy." He started researching different potential paths for Uruguay's energy future and reaching out to experts he knew around the world. Ultimately, he wrote up an entire plan for how Uruguay could change its energy mix so that it relied almost entirely on renewable energy. There would be less pollution, it would be better for the climate, and, he thought, in the long run, it would be the most economical choice Uruguay could make. Enlarge this imageRamón Méndez Galain in his living room in Montevideo.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRRamón Méndez Galain in his living room in Montevideo.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Countries all over the world have spent the last decade announcing lofty goals to reduce the emissions that cause climate change. In the United States, President Biden has set a goal to reach100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035. But Uruguay has almost reached that goal already. In a typical year,98% of Uruguay's grid is powered by green energy. Méndez Galain's plan was built around two simple facts about his country. First, while there wasn't a domestic supply of fossil fuels like coal or oil, there was a great deal of wind. Second, that wind blew over a country that was, to a great extent, composed of uninhabited agricultural land. His vision for Uruguay's energy future was to cover that empty land with hundreds of wind turbines. Enlarge this imageToday, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRToday, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Today, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPR Today, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Today, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide caption Today, wind power accounts for around 40% of Uruguay's energy production. And, according to a 2008 law, all the wind in the country officially belongs to the Uruguayan people.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide caption To solve the question of how to pay for all those turbines, Méndez Galain came up with a variation on an approach used by some electric utilities in neighboring Brazil. Those utilities were run via public-private partnerships, in which the utilities handled energy generation, while private companies were in charge of power distribution and customer service. Méndez Galain's scheme involved reversing that relationship, so that private companies would be in charge of setting up and maintaining the wind turbines that would power Uruguay's grid, while the public utility would continue to distribute that energy to its customers His scheme had the built-in advantage of pushing the billions of dollars in upfront cost to construct all those wind turbines onto the private companies. In exchange, the public utility would agree to buy all the energy those turbines produced at a set rate for 20 years. In 2011, Uruguay held an auction intended to secure 150 megawatts of new wind power, which would have represented about 5% of the country's energy generating capacity. After more than 20 different companies threw in their bids, Méndez Galain and his team decided to radically accelerate their timeline for the country's energy transition. Within a few years of Méndez Galain receiving that phone call inviting him to become the national director of energy, he had achieved what he had set out to do. Uruguay's energy grid was powered almost exclusively by domestically created, renewable energy, and, adjusted for inflation, consumer prices had gone down. Today, there are more than 700 wind turbines installed across Uruguay's countryside. Today's show was hosted by Erika Beras and Amanda Aroncyzk. It was produced by Willa Rubin with help from Emma Peaslee. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and edited by Keith Romer. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra