# [PODCAST] Baby's first market failure

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/02/02/1153931108/day-care-market-expensive-child-care-waitlists
**Atlas ID**: 229511
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.849892

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Why daycare is so expensive, but workers are paid too little : Planet MoneyAnyone who has tried shopping for day care knows that it is tough out there.For one, it is hard even to get your hands on information about costs, either online or over the phone – day cares will often only share their prices after you have taken a tour of their facilities. Even once you find a place you like, many day cares have waitlists stretching 6 months, 9 months, a year.Waitlists are a classic economic sign that something isn't right, that prices are too low. But ask any parent and they will tell you that prices for day cares are actually toohigh. According to a recent report from the U.S. Treasury, more than 60% of families can't afford the full cost of high quality day care. Meanwhile, day care owners can barely afford to stay open. No one is happy.On today's show, we get into the very weird, very broken market for day care. We will try to understand how this market can simultaneously strain parents' budgets and underpay its workers. And we will look at a few possible solutions.This show was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. Emma Peaslee helped book the show. It was mastered by Gilly Moon. Keith Romer edited this episode. Jess Jiang is our acting Executive Producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcasts or atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkBaby's first market failureFebruary 3, 20234:53 PM ETBySarah Gonzalez,Jeff Guo,Keith Romer,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerBaby's first market failureListen·23:1423:14TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1153931108/1198959614" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageWesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide captiontoggle captionWesley WadeWesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley WadeAnyone who has tried shopping for day care knows that it is tough out there.For one, it is hard even to get your hands on information about costs, either online or over the phone – day cares will often only share their prices after you have taken a tour of their facilities. Even once you find a place you like, many day cares have waitlists stretching 6 months, 9 months, a year.Enlarge this imageWesley Wade with his youngest daughter, Ella.Giovonni Wadehide captiontoggle captionGiovonni WadeWesley Wade with his youngest daughter, Ella.Giovonni WadeWaitlists are a classic economic sign that something isn't right, that prices are too low. But ask any parent and they will tell you that prices for day cares are actually toohigh.According to a recent report from the U.S. Treasury, more than 60% of families can't afford the full cost of high quality day care. Meanwhile, day care owners can barely afford to stay open. No one is happy.On today's show, we get into the very weird, very broken market for day care. We will try to understand how this market can simultaneously strain parents' budgets and underpay its workers. And we will look at a few possible solutions.Sponsor MessageThis show was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. Emma Peaslee helped book the show. It was mastered by Gilly Moon. Keith Romer edited this episode. Jess Jiang is our acting Executive Producer.The Indicator from Planet MoneyChild Care ConundrumHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Kids Energy" "Shuffle The Deck" and "White Beaches."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Baby's first market failureListen·23:1423:14TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1153931108/1198959614" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Baby's first market failureListen·23:1423:14TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1153931108/1198959614" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1153931108/1198959614" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageWesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide captiontoggle captionWesley WadeWesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley WadeAnyone who has tried shopping for day care knows that it is tough out there.For one, it is hard even to get your hands on information about costs, either online or over the phone – day cares will often only share their prices after you have taken a tour of their facilities. Even once you find a place you like, many day cares have waitlists stretching 6 months, 9 months, a year.Enlarge this imageWesley Wade with his youngest daughter, Ella.Giovonni Wadehide captiontoggle captionGiovonni WadeWesley Wade with his youngest daughter, Ella.Giovonni WadeWaitlists are a classic economic sign that something isn't right, that prices are too low. But ask any parent and they will tell you that prices for day cares are actually toohigh.According to a recent report from the U.S. Treasury, more than 60% of families can't afford the full cost of high quality day care. Meanwhile, day care owners can barely afford to stay open. No one is happy.On today's show, we get into the very weird, very broken market for day care. We will try to understand how this market can simultaneously strain parents' budgets and underpay its workers. And we will look at a few possible solutions.Sponsor MessageThis show was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. Emma Peaslee helped book the show. It was mastered by Gilly Moon. Keith Romer edited this episode. Jess Jiang is our acting Executive Producer.The Indicator from Planet MoneyChild Care ConundrumHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Kids Energy" "Shuffle The Deck" and "White Beaches." Enlarge this imageWesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide captiontoggle captionWesley WadeWesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wade Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide captiontoggle captionWesley Wade Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide captiontoggle caption Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide caption Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wadehide caption Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wade Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care.Wesley Wade Wesley Wade and his wife Giovonni couldn't find day care for their two kids, Helena and Ella. Wesley, a mental health counselor working on his PhD, ended up quitting his job to take care of the girls. All over the U.S. there is a shortage of child care. For one, it is hard even to get your hands on information about costs, either online or over the phone – day cares will often only share their prices after you have taken a tour of their facilities. Even once you find a place you like, many day cares have waitlists stretching 6 months, 9 months, a year. According to a recent report from the U.S. Treasury, more than 60% of families can't afford the full cost of high quality day care. Meanwhile, day care owners can barely afford to stay open. No one is happy. On today's show, we get into the very weird, very broken market for day care. We will try to understand how this market can simultaneously strain parents' budgets and underpay its workers. And we will look at a few possible solutions. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra