# [PODCAST] Can money buy happiness?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/09/18/1200121013/money-happiness-kahneman-killingsworth
**Atlas ID**: 229465
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.841381

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Turns out money might just buy happiness (it's complicated) : Planet MoneyPeople often say that money can't buy you happiness. Sometimes, if you ask them to tell you more about it, they'll mention a famous 2010 study by Nobel Prize winners Daniel Kahneman and Angus Deaton. That study found that higher household income correlates with greater emotional well-being, but only up to around $75,000 a year. After that, more money didn't seem to matter.This was a famous study by two famous academics. The result stood for over a decade. And it feels good, right? Maybe the rich aren't so much happier than anyone else. But researchers have recently done a complete 180 on this idea. In 2021, psychologist Matt Killingsworth found nearly the opposite: That more moneydoescorrelate with more happiness. And that the relationship continues well beyond $75,000 per year.Today on the show: Does more money meanfewerproblems? Two researchers with totally different takes come together to hammer out a better understanding of the relationship between money and happiness.This episode was hosted by Sally Helm and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sean Saldana, Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Meg Cramer and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and hear our bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkCan money buy happiness?September 18, 20243:33 PM ETBySally Helm,Nick Fountain,Meg Cramer,Sean SaldanaCan money buy happiness?Listen·28:4828:48TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1200121013/1258982723" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageLeft to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.hide captiontoggle captionCourtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.Left to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.People often say that money can't buy you happiness. Sometimes, if you ask them to tell you more about it, they'll mention a famous 2010 study by Nobel Prize winners Daniel Kahneman and Angus Deaton. That study found that higher household income correlates with greater emotional well-being, but only up to around $75,000 a year. After that, more money didn't seem to matter.This was a famous study by two famous academics. The result stood for over a decade. And it feels good, right? Maybe the rich aren't so much happier than anyone else. But researchers have recently done a complete 180 on this idea. In 2021, psychologist Matt Killingsworth found nearly the opposite: That more moneydoescorrelate with more happiness. And that the relationship continues well beyond $75,000 per year.Sponsor MessageToday on the show: Does more money meanfewerproblems? Two researchers with totally different takes come together to hammer out a better understanding of the relationship between money and happiness.Planet MoneyHow To Measure HappinessThis episode was hosted by Sally Helm and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sean Saldana, Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Meg Cramer and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and hear our bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Can money buy happiness?Listen·28:4828:48TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1200121013/1258982723" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Can money buy happiness?Listen·28:4828:48TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1200121013/1258982723" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1200121013/1258982723" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageLeft to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.hide captiontoggle captionCourtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.Left to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.People often say that money can't buy you happiness. Sometimes, if you ask them to tell you more about it, they'll mention a famous 2010 study by Nobel Prize winners Daniel Kahneman and Angus Deaton. That study found that higher household income correlates with greater emotional well-being, but only up to around $75,000 a year. After that, more money didn't seem to matter.This was a famous study by two famous academics. The result stood for over a decade. And it feels good, right? Maybe the rich aren't so much happier than anyone else. But researchers have recently done a complete 180 on this idea. In 2021, psychologist Matt Killingsworth found nearly the opposite: That more moneydoescorrelate with more happiness. And that the relationship continues well beyond $75,000 per year.Sponsor MessageToday on the show: Does more money meanfewerproblems? Two researchers with totally different takes come together to hammer out a better understanding of the relationship between money and happiness.Planet MoneyHow To Measure HappinessThis episode was hosted by Sally Helm and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sean Saldana, Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Meg Cramer and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and hear our bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter. Enlarge this imageLeft to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.hide captiontoggle captionCourtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.Left to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth. Left to Right: Barb Mellers, Daniel Kahneman, & Matt Killingsworth.Courtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth.hide captiontoggle captionCourtesy of Barb Mellers; Andreas Rentz/Getty Images for Burda Media; Courtesy of Matt Killingsworth. People often say that money can't buy you happiness. Sometimes, if you ask them to tell you more about it, they'll mention a famous 2010 study by Nobel Prize winners Daniel Kahneman and Angus Deaton. That study found that higher household income correlates with greater emotional well-being, but only up to around $75,000 a year. After that, more money didn't seem to matter. This was a famous study by two famous academics. The result stood for over a decade. And it feels good, right? Maybe the rich aren't so much happier than anyone else. But researchers have recently done a complete 180 on this idea. In 2021, psychologist Matt Killingsworth found nearly the opposite: That more moneydoescorrelate with more happiness. And that the relationship continues well beyond $75,000 per year. This episode was hosted by Sally Helm and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Sean Saldana, Sam Yellowhorse Kesler, and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Meg Cramer and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra