# [PODCAST] The 145% tariff already did its damage

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/05/16/1251782092/tariff-us-china-pause-trade-war
**Atlas ID**: 229445
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.837704

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop What a month of 145% tariffs on imports from China look like : Planet MoneyEven though the 145% tariff on Chinese imports only lasted a month, it already inflicted its scars on the economy. Global trade is just not something you can turn off and on like that.Some companies got really unlucky. Like those whose goods arrived at U.S. ports before the pause. If a medium size company had a million dollars worth of goods imported, they had to pay an extra million and a half dollars on top of that – just for the tariff.Today we are bringing you a portrait of this unfathomably high tariff. What a month of 145% tariffs looked like and felt like for three people in the global economy whose lives were all affected and still will be. The ones who got lucky and the ones who got really unlucky.This episode of Planet Money was produced by Emma Peaslee and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Jimmy Keeley and fact-checked by Willa Rubin. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Check out the livecargo map here.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter. Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts. Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Bass Talks," "Bassline Motion," and "What Da Funk" Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe 145% tariff already did its damageMay 16, 20256:42 PM ETBySarah Gonzalez,Jess Jiang,Emma PeasleeThe 145% tariff already did its damageListen·26:5326:53TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251782092/1269327888" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageThere is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSarah Gonzalez/NPRThere is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPREven though the 145% tariff on Chinese imports only lasted a month, it already inflicted its scars on the economy. Global trade is just not something you can turn off and on like that.Some companiesgot really unlucky. Like those whose goods arrived at U.S. ports before the pause. If a medium size company had a million dollars worth of goods imported, they had to pay anextramillion and a half dollars on top of that – just for the tariff.Today we are bringing you a portrait of this unfathomably high tariff. What a month of 145% tariffs looked like and felt like for three people in the global economy whose lives were all affected and still will be. The ones who got lucky and the ones who got really unlucky.Sponsor MessageThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Emma Peaslee and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Jimmy Keeley and fact-checked by Willa Rubin. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Check out the livecargo map here.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Bass Talks," "Bassline Motion," and "What Da Funk"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The 145% tariff already did its damageListen·26:5326:53TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251782092/1269327888" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The 145% tariff already did its damageListen·26:5326:53TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251782092/1269327888" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1251782092/1269327888" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageThere is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSarah Gonzalez/NPRThere is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPREven though the 145% tariff on Chinese imports only lasted a month, it already inflicted its scars on the economy. Global trade is just not something you can turn off and on like that.Some companiesgot really unlucky. Like those whose goods arrived at U.S. ports before the pause. If a medium size company had a million dollars worth of goods imported, they had to pay anextramillion and a half dollars on top of that – just for the tariff.Today we are bringing you a portrait of this unfathomably high tariff. What a month of 145% tariffs looked like and felt like for three people in the global economy whose lives were all affected and still will be. The ones who got lucky and the ones who got really unlucky.Sponsor MessageThis episode of Planet Money was produced by Emma Peaslee and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Jimmy Keeley and fact-checked by Willa Rubin. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Check out the livecargo map here.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Bass Talks," "Bassline Motion," and "What Da Funk" Enlarge this imageThere is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSarah Gonzalez/NPRThere is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPR There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSarah Gonzalez/NPR There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide captiontoggle caption There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide caption There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPRhide caption There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPR There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles.Sarah Gonzalez/NPR There is normally a cargo ship, parked, getting unloaded under the cranes. But the 145% tariff on imports from China brought shipping way down. And it'll take a while for the shipping volumes to return at the Port of Los Angeles. Some companiesgot really unlucky. Like those whose goods arrived at U.S. ports before the pause. If a medium size company had a million dollars worth of goods imported, they had to pay anextramillion and a half dollars on top of that – just for the tariff. Today we are bringing you a portrait of this unfathomably high tariff. What a month of 145% tariffs looked like and felt like for three people in the global economy whose lives were all affected and still will be. The ones who got lucky and the ones who got really unlucky. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra