# [PODCAST] When Trump met crypto

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/06/27/1254874796/bitcoin-conference-las-vegas-2025-trump
**Atlas ID**: 229441
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.836381

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Into the world of Trump, crypto, and the orange-pilling of the government : Planet MoneyIn 2019, President Trump tweeted: "I am not a fan of Bitcoin and other Cryptocurrencies." Today, the Trumps are all over crypto.There are memecoins for Trump and the first lady. They own a stablecoin, a bitcoin mining operation, and a crypto financial services company. And, at the Bitcoin 2025 conference, Trump's media group announced they're raising 2.5 billion dollars from investors to buy bitcoin.At that same conference, speakers included two White House advisors, two sons of the US president, the son of the U.S. Commerce Secretary, and a Trump appointee to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For a cryptocurrency built on independence from big government, this was a swerve.So, what happens when the President of the United States showers his love on the crypto community ... while also becoming a crypto entrepreneur himself? We follow along asTrump Inc.'s Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein spend three days at the Las Vegas conference center where convicts are cheered, oversight and regulation are booed, and the separation of crypto and state no longer applies.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWhen Trump met cryptoJune 27, 20256:39 PM ETByAndrea Bernstein,Ilya Marritz,Marianne McCune,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerWhen Trump met cryptoListen·31:5531:55TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254874796/1269543620" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageDonald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionIAN MAULE/AFP via Getty ImagesDonald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty ImagesIn 2019, President Trump tweeted: "I am not a fan of Bitcoin and other Cryptocurrencies." Today, the Trumps are all over crypto.There are memecoins for Trump and the first lady. They own a stablecoin, a bitcoin mining operation, and a crypto financial services company. And, at the Bitcoin 2025 conference, Trump's media group announced they're raising 2.5 billion dollars from investors to buy bitcoin.At that same conference, speakers included two White House advisors, two sons of the US president, the son of the U.S. Commerce Secretary, and a Trump appointee to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For a cryptocurrency built on independence from big government, this was a swerve.Sponsor MessageSo, what happens when the President of the United States showers his love on the crypto community ... while also becoming a crypto entrepreneur himself? We follow along asTrump Inc.'s Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein spend three days at the Las Vegas conference center where convicts are cheered, oversight and regulation are booed, and the separation of crypto and state no longer applies.This episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi, and reported by Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and fact-checked by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Marianne McCune. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Production Music - "Bass Talks," "Warm Welcome," and "Better Weather"President TrumpcryptotrumpbitcoinPresidentLas VegasFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor When Trump met cryptoListen·31:5531:55TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254874796/1269543620" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript When Trump met cryptoListen·31:5531:55TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254874796/1269543620" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254874796/1269543620" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageDonald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionIAN MAULE/AFP via Getty ImagesDonald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty ImagesIn 2019, President Trump tweeted: "I am not a fan of Bitcoin and other Cryptocurrencies." Today, the Trumps are all over crypto.There are memecoins for Trump and the first lady. They own a stablecoin, a bitcoin mining operation, and a crypto financial services company. And, at the Bitcoin 2025 conference, Trump's media group announced they're raising 2.5 billion dollars from investors to buy bitcoin.At that same conference, speakers included two White House advisors, two sons of the US president, the son of the U.S. Commerce Secretary, and a Trump appointee to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For a cryptocurrency built on independence from big government, this was a swerve.Sponsor MessageSo, what happens when the President of the United States showers his love on the crypto community ... while also becoming a crypto entrepreneur himself? We follow along asTrump Inc.'s Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein spend three days at the Las Vegas conference center where convicts are cheered, oversight and regulation are booed, and the separation of crypto and state no longer applies.This episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi, and reported by Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and fact-checked by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Marianne McCune. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Production Music - "Bass Talks," "Warm Welcome," and "Better Weather" Enlarge this imageDonald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionIAN MAULE/AFP via Getty ImagesDonald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Images Donald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide captiontoggle captionIAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Images Donald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide captiontoggle caption Donald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide caption Donald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Imageshide caption Donald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Images Donald Trump Jr. (L), son of the US president, shakes hands with Rumble Inc.'s Chris Pavlovski during The Bitcoin Conference at The Venetian Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada, on May 27, 2025.IAN MAULE/AFP via Getty Images There are memecoins for Trump and the first lady. They own a stablecoin, a bitcoin mining operation, and a crypto financial services company. And, at the Bitcoin 2025 conference, Trump's media group announced they're raising 2.5 billion dollars from investors to buy bitcoin. At that same conference, speakers included two White House advisors, two sons of the US president, the son of the U.S. Commerce Secretary, and a Trump appointee to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For a cryptocurrency built on independence from big government, this was a swerve. So, what happens when the President of the United States showers his love on the crypto community ... while also becoming a crypto entrepreneur himself? We follow along asTrump Inc.'s Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein spend three days at the Las Vegas conference center where convicts are cheered, oversight and regulation are booed, and the separation of crypto and state no longer applies. This episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi, and reported by Ilya Marritz and Andrea Bernstein. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and fact-checked by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Marianne McCune. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra