# [PODCAST] Netflix Earnings, The Status of Netflix Advertising

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/netflix-earnings-the-status-of-netflix-advertising/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.LTXC3CCk1xkf1pSlMF5xNcxWbqYGsa1A3XzQpUCYeCWSGKE0PQvNF7M9vCQm4gnac8nzswtd04EN1P8sfF-Gl3OZN4DhxMhnibyPZUD1RKReJ0SqqnknGJVt00Mblq_j0-7DayPKnGwXXLotrKeOEdsMGs4txM7ir6tEhJ6zxFjCapWHrz_kMgvw4e1fl61SxRLAZez82meILbryquBrIHYXMz_YQUIjde8SJihWQmD6sCRGujv2W7xJ39Vtk8HKrT6FqKJ3tH5-8tm3ekkzJIx6lsT8TTQfh2x004F127fMk4D0gnzPl6IZvefcEieZF-sWZnmnFLGKfYaE1Yj44w
**Atlas ID**: 229724
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.956457

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirNetflix Earnings, The Status of Netflix AdvertisingTuesday, July 23, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Several folks (including — full disclosure — Microsoft PR) responded to yesterday’sCrashes and Competitionto note thatCrowdStrike has been crashing Linux-based computers as well; my mistake was in stating that Linux had cut off kernel access. In truth, while Linux (like Windows) has provided hooks for security vendors that doesn’t require kernel access, you can obviously configure Linux however you want given its open-source nature; Apple is unique in its unilateral ability to force all 3rd-parties to only operate in user space (which, I should also clarify,users can overridein macOS).On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. extended its lead over the streaming competition, adding 8.05 million customers in the second quarter and raising estimates for annual sales and profit margins. The subscriber results, announced in a shareholder letter Thursday, topped expectations in every region around the world and included 2.8 million new customers in the Asia-Pacific. Analysts expected a total of 4.87 million on average.The company’s crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscriber plan with advertising propelled Netflix to its second-best first half, trailing only the pandemic-fueled boom in 2020. The less-costly plan accounted for almost half of sign-ups last quarter in markets where it’s offered, and the company said it will be large enough next year to appeal to major sponsors.This was an interesting set of earnings for a few reasons, and a much more revelatoryShareholder LetterandEarnings Callthan usual; I’m biased, because I feel like both confirmed several theories of the case I have put forward over the last couple of years.First, I wrote aboutNetflix’s Waiting Gamelast quarter:Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.To that end, the company talked extensively about its new TV homepage; co-CEO Greg Peters said on the earnings call:It’s hard to know exactly at this moment how much benefit that new home page will derive. I think it’s worth noting that it’s less about the improvements that we’re going to deliver initially, but it’s more about creating a structure that allows us to evolve and advance more freely than the current structure does. And in terms of what are the pain points, what are we trying to solve, a lot of this is getting to the increase in diversity of entertainment that we are now offering. So we’ve been amazing at film and series for a long period of time, but now increasingly, we’re adding live events into it. It’s live events like the Brady Roast, which was incredible, but it’s sort of a one-off event that we have to create demand for. It’s live events like WWE which are consistent and repeating that we want to make sure that fans of that experience have an easy way to access those things. We’re increasingly promoting games as well into our service. So what we found is we need to create structures that allow us to flexibly go from one type of content and entertainment to another in terms of how we’re promoting and connecting those. So there’s things like that.There’s also things like we want to increasingly recognize that we’re doing, even in the same content type, we’re doing different jobs for our users in different moments. And that could be Sunday afternoon family movie time, that would be a great experience that we want to provide exactly the right discovery and choosing experience for versus maybe late on Thursday night when you’re coming home and you just want to get into the next episode of the series that you’re currently cruising through. So it’s that kind of flexibility we want to provide. This is — our expectation is that this new structure will allow us to deliver, as the old structure did for a decade, multiple repetitive material benefits to users in terms of engagement, which lead into retention and then revenue. But again, that will be a long iterative journey and mostly, we’re trying to take that first step and set us up for that.The key takeaway is that this focus on improving recommendations and thus engagement is a project that is only just beginning; the business payoff in the long run from these efforts would be justifying the price increases that Netflix wants to “earn” for a long time to come (and as for the advertising parts, I’ll get to that below).Second, as I noted in that Update, another reason for Netflix to not aggressively spend on licensing programming from other studios is that they haven’t gotten desperate enough:I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.Netflix is, to be clear, licensing the occasional show from other networks, but the point is they’re not going to overpay for them; that the company doesn’t want to go out of its way to help the other studios was made clear in the investor letter:From the early days of streaming, we saw partnerships with device makers and pay TV and mobile operators as key to ensuring Netflix was easy to find and use. These partnerships are a win-win — making it simple for people to discover, sign-up, use and pay for Netflix. In turn, our device and operator partners benefit through increased device sales from consumers seeking devices integrated with Netflix and greater customer acquisition and higher retention as well as the opportunity to upsell higher value data or content packages. We haven’t bundled Netflix solely with other streamers like Disney+ or Max because Netflix already operates as a go-to destination for entertainment thanks to the breadth and variety of our slate and superior product experience. This has driven industry leading penetration, engagement and retention for us, which limits the benefit to Netflix of bundling directly with other streamers.This hearkens back to Netflix’srefusal to join Apple’s TV app, and a topic I touched on in my interview with Peters earlier this year:One of the more interesting decisions was when Netflix wasn’t just available on a plethora of devices, but could also be sold by other vendors, like the cable companies. For nerds like me that are very interested in these aspects of business, that was a big decision. What made you decide that you could own the customer without owning the billing relationship? Was that a controversial decision? Or is owning the customer the wrong way to think about that?GP:No, I think people talk about owning the customer and there are many dimensions of what that “ownership” means, right? What I’d like to say is just like, “What’s the relationship you have and what does the customer expect from you?”.There was some controversy in that because I would say we had a very good organic growth channel where we were signing up many millions of subscribers every quarter and we felt good about that. But what we realized, and really it’s an extension of the strategy, the core ubiquity strategy, which is we found with every pocket of new devices that we added — and it started with the game consoles, which were this really large deploy base that was already connected to the Internet and connected to the TVs — we unlocked those and we had a super rush of growth, and we saw it through TV, smart TVs, et cetera. But a bunch of people were spending their time watching entertainment on their cable set top box as an example. The basic theory is we could unlock a same accelerant to growth by being there and that while to your point, there’s some aspect of that customer relationship we would have to give up in that mode, that quite frankly the most important part in what we negotiated for and fought for in those deals was that when people came to be entertained, they were using the Netflix experience basically.Right. So owning the customer from a Netflix perspective is about the discovery experience, the actual interaction. We saw this, to go back to Apple, you never joined the Apple TV experience because that was the aspect that was important to you.GP:That’s right, and that’s where we think we can add differential value. And quite frankly, we deferred to partners who add differential value in other ways, like billing. A big component of how we solve payments around the world, which is quite complicated and quite difficult, is we rely on their expertise. They’re so much better at trying to integrate with local payment systems and local payment culture and practices.I think that distinction between billing and the user interface is an important one; the other distinction highlighted by this section in the shareholder letter is between legacy and modern distribution strategies. In short, Netflix is fine partnering with cable companies, because cable television is in secular decline; however, the company believes that streaming is the future, so it doesn’t see any benefit in partnering with streaming companies, thus helping to prop up competitors that ought to be suppliers.This also clarifies the terms ofthat curious Comcast bundle announcementearlier this year, which included Comcast broadband and TV, Peacock, AppleTV+ and, surprisingly, Netflix.I theorized at the timethat Netflix may not have been giving up anything at all (beyond, perhaps, it’s normal partnership agreement with Comcast), and the fact the company so clearly stated it’s not interested in bundling with other streamers certainly suggests that is the case.Third, I made the casein Maythat the way to think about Netflix’s deal with the NFL is in terms of customer acquisition; another way to frame it — as co-CEO Ted Sarandos did — is as event programming, not inventory programming:How do you thread the needle on licensing sports to drive advertising spend without becoming beholden to leagues at renewal?Well, hopefully, exactly the way we’re doing it, by making these Netflix events, not necessarily taking on a lot of tonnage from any one league, by actually making these games events like having two NFL football games on Christmas Day and two great games, the Chiefs and the Steelers and the Ravens and the Texans. They’re both going to be great games, and it really creates a lot of real excitement with the service, and it’s one day of football.So when I look at that and I think along those lines, you can see how we solved for that in our WWE deal, which was economics that we like and live with and can grow into and contemplate with that expansion of cost and viewing would be over the — over, in that case, as long as 20 years if we want it to be.So I think it’s really not a matter of there’s an automatic disconnect between you can’t do sports and net profit. It’s very difficult to have big league sports and profit when you offer them entire seasons. But when you offer them in this event model that we’re building on, we’re really excited about our opportunity to do that without the risk that you’re talking about right now. And then beyond that, we are in love with the kind of very profitable storytelling version of sports. So if you can’t wait for those football games on Christmas Day, you can watch Receiver right now. It just started on July 10 on Netflix, which is part of that storytelling version of sports.In short, if Netflix thinks it can grow a sport beyond its costs, like the WWE (“sport”), they will consider a full rights deal; for sports like the NFL, though, that have long since maximized their rights fees, they are only interested in event programming to drive customer acquisition and, as a secondary benefit, drive interest (and probably access) for much cheaper shoulder programming.The Status of Netflix AdvertisingFrom Eric Seufert atMobile Dev Memo:Breaking with its recent trend, sequential ARPU growth in UCAN — Netflix’s largest subscriber segment — decreased in Q2 by 0.75%. I’ve arguedpersistentlysincebeforeNetflix’s advertising-supported tier was launched that it would be ARPU-dilutive; this appeared to be the case immediately after the introduction of the ad-supported tier, with subsequent ARPU increases taking place after the password sharing crackdown was put into effect and prices were raised. It seems that the impact from those policies has waned, with ARPU declining (albeit to a level that remains elevated from the pre-advertising baseline). For the first time since the tier was introduced, Netflix’s co-CEO [Greg Peters] stated this explicitly in its earnings call (emphasis mine; note that ARM here means Average Revenue per Member and is functionally equivalent to ARPU):And then on terms of ads arm, so ads arm, which is, of course, the combination of the subscription amount plus the ads revenue, currently because we’ve been scaling so rapidly, we are not — we’re racing behind essentially to fulfill all of that increasing inventory and we’re lagging in that regard. Socurrently, our ads arm is lower than our non-ads arm. And that’s obviously — we look at that as both — it’s a go do but it’s a revenue growth opportunity for us as we scale into that, that represents an opportunity to accelerate our revenue growth as well.…That growth in the ad-tier’s adoption is slowing while it remains a minority of new subscriptions is a curious development. I argue inIs Netflix’s advertising business a success?that the goal of introducing the ad-supported tier — monetizing consumers that couldn’t or wouldn’t pay for Netflix at other price points — likely isn’t being met currently, and that reducing the price point to $0 as a Free Ad-Supported Streaming Television (FAST) option is the most viable path for the tier’s success. Note that Netflix’s two slowest-growing regions — UCAN and EMEA — have the highest concentration of countries that feature the ad-supported tier.I argued last year inThe Unified Content Business Modelthat the natural end state for all content businesses was a combination of free-and-ad-supported and subscription-with-no-ads (ideally the content is the same on both, to maximize leverage); the key thing about “free” is that it maximizes volume on the ad-supported tier, which dramatically increases leverage on advertising businesses that are expensive to build.The challenge for Netflix is that they, unlike YouTube, started out as a pure subscription play, which means that the path from here to there must pass through the valley of potential cannibalization; that is why Peters was pretty skeptical about the idea during thataforementioned interview:I think the answer to your question about free/not free might be market-by-market but I do believe under the current model we’re in in the United States, for example, I think we can get to 80%, 85% penetration in the model we’re in, and then when you think about the ultimate goal is long-term revenue optimization, going to free probably isn’t the best way to get there. Now, that may not be the case in every country around the world and there’s countries that have very strong free-to-air and/or ad-based entertainment models and it may be that in a Japan or Germany, something along those lines might get you there. But I’d say it’s a complex model to think about the trade-offs between cannibalization on subscription and how do you make all that math work? But that’s the kind of stuff that we do every day and we’ll keep doing.To that end, it was notable on the earnings call that Peters indicated Netflix could actuallyraiseprices on its ad-tier (I’ve excerpted the specific question and answer from a multi-part question and answer):Would you consider raising the price of ad-supported tiers as an offset?So you mentioned price. We think about pricing for ads tier very similarly to how we would think about pricing for our non-ads tier. First of all, I just think it’s worth noting that we love having an entry price that’s lower. That means we are more accessible for more people in our ads market. That’s a great thing because they get access to all the amazing storytelling that we are doing there. But in terms of raising that price, we think about it similar to how we think about pricing in general, which is where it’s our job to increase the value that we are delivering all of our members. We’ve got more amazing film, more series, the live events that are coming, more games. And when we have signals from our members, this is the amount of acquisition that we’ve got going on, engagement, what our retention and churn looks like, then we find the right moment to ask our members to pay a bit more to keep that flywheel spinning. And we’ll think about that in the ads context just like we would in the non-ads context.This answer clearly runs in the opposite direction of where Seufert and I have our heads at; any potential price raise for the ads tier woulddecreasevolume, which isn’t good for the advertising business. On the other hand, raising prices may be the best choice for revenue optimization, as Peters noted.I do think this changes how we should think about Netflix’s ad business. First, to answer Seufert’s question, to the extent Netflix views itself as a subscription business, I think you can make the case that Netflix’s ads business is already a success, precisely because it is driving new subscribers. In other words, the goal appears to have been to offer a lower price, both for marginal subscribers and also previous password-sharers, while giving Netflix greater scope to raise prices on its non-ad plans (all of which I noted inWhy Netflix Should Sell Ads), as opposed to building a material revenue driver. Indeed, CFO Spencer Neumann cited the “attractive entry point in terms of price point and feature set for our ads plan” as one of the factors driving subscriber growth.Second, this could explain why Netflix capitulated (to useSeufert’s term) and announced it would start using third-party ad networks; yes, the company is investing in its own ad server, and could always cut off third-party ads in the future, but this specific decision sets the expectation that advertising revenue is something that is nice to add to the core subscription business, as opposed to the long-term future of the business (which may have driven a longer-term approach in terms of foregoing commoditized revenue now).Third, it’s possible that Netflix has scaled back its ad ambitions somewhat in light of Amazon’s move to make Prime Video ad-supported by default; from theWall Street Journal last month:Amazon.com has thrown a wrench into Netflix’s advertising plans. Netflix is charging less for ads and embracing new offerings such as product placement, according to ad buyers, as the streaming company looks to keep expanding an ad business that faces growing competition. The streaming ad market was upended earlier this year when Amazon converted its entire Prime Video subscriber base to a new ad-supported version, giving customers a chance to switch back to ad-free streaming for an extra $2.99 a month.Prime Video’s large ad-supported subscriber base means it has a significant amount of ad inventory that is affecting the negotiations that Netflix, YouTube, TV networks and other streamers are having with advertisers as they commit to buying billions of dollars in commercial time for the coming TV season—a process known as the “upfronts.”“The Unified Content Business Model” may have ultimately been too simplistic. Specifically, while it’s correct that any at-scale content business does need to have both ad-supported and subscription-based options, it may be the case that the real decision for executives is which one is the primary model. For YouTube, and now Prime Video, the primary model is advertising, which means the top priority in terms of decision-making and investment is about driving scale; if some customers would prefer to have no ads they can pay for that, but it’s not the default. The other approach is where Netflix seems to be settling, which is viewing ads primarily as a way to expand the addressable market for their subscription business (and likely eschewing free).The key point in drawing this distinction is that the latter need to accept they won’t ever be truly competitive with the former when it comes to advertising; they will never have enough subscribers to have a truly competitive offering, and thus probably shouldn’t spend too much on building expensive infrastructure that only pays off at massive scale. Their ad space is, in the end, a commodity, because their primary goal — you only get one primary, by definition — isn’t to build an ad business.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019Apple Should Buy NetflixDateMonday, October 31, 2016←Crashes and CompetitionLlama 3.1; Zuckerberg on Open Source AI; Kamala Harris, Europe, and Tech Innovation→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Netflix Earnings, The Status of Netflix AdvertisingTuesday, July 23, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Several folks (including — full disclosure — Microsoft PR) responded to yesterday’sCrashes and Competitionto note thatCrowdStrike has been crashing Linux-based computers as well; my mistake was in stating that Linux had cut off kernel access. In truth, while Linux (like Windows) has provided hooks for security vendors that doesn’t require kernel access, you can obviously configure Linux however you want given its open-source nature; Apple is unique in its unilateral ability to force all 3rd-parties to only operate in user space (which, I should also clarify,users can overridein macOS).On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. extended its lead over the streaming competition, adding 8.05 million customers in the second quarter and raising estimates for annual sales and profit margins. The subscriber results, announced in a shareholder letter Thursday, topped expectations in every region around the world and included 2.8 million new customers in the Asia-Pacific. Analysts expected a total of 4.87 million on average.The company’s crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscriber plan with advertising propelled Netflix to its second-best first half, trailing only the pandemic-fueled boom in 2020. The less-costly plan accounted for almost half of sign-ups last quarter in markets where it’s offered, and the company said it will be large enough next year to appeal to major sponsors.This was an interesting set of earnings for a few reasons, and a much more revelatoryShareholder LetterandEarnings Callthan usual; I’m biased, because I feel like both confirmed several theories of the case I have put forward over the last couple of years.First, I wrote aboutNetflix’s Waiting Gamelast quarter:Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.To that end, the company talked extensively about its new TV homepage; co-CEO Greg Peters said on the earnings call:It’s hard to know exactly at this moment how much benefit that new home page will derive. I think it’s worth noting that it’s less about the improvements that we’re going to deliver initially, but it’s more about creating a structure that allows us to evolve and advance more freely than the current structure does. And in terms of what are the pain points, what are we trying to solve, a lot of this is getting to the increase in diversity of entertainment that we are now offering. So we’ve been amazing at film and series for a long period of time, but now increasingly, we’re adding live events into it. It’s live events like the Brady Roast, which was incredible, but it’s sort of a one-off event that we have to create demand for. It’s live events like WWE which are consistent and repeating that we want to make sure that fans of that experience have an easy way to access those things. We’re increasingly promoting games as well into our service. So what we found is we need to create structures that allow us to flexibly go from one type of content and entertainment to another in terms of how we’re promoting and connecting those. So there’s things like that.There’s also things like we want to increasingly recognize that we’re doing, even in the same content type, we’re doing different jobs for our users in different moments. And that could be Sunday afternoon family movie time, that would be a great experience that we want to provide exactly the right discovery and choosing experience for versus maybe late on Thursday night when you’re coming home and you just want to get into the next episode of the series that you’re currently cruising through. So it’s that kind of flexibility we want to provide. This is — our expectation is that this new structure will allow us to deliver, as the old structure did for a decade, multiple repetitive material benefits to users in terms of engagement, which lead into retention and then revenue. But again, that will be a long iterative journey and mostly, we’re trying to take that first step and set us up for that.The key takeaway is that this focus on improving recommendations and thus engagement is a project that is only just beginning; the business payoff in the long run from these efforts would be justifying the price increases that Netflix wants to “earn” for a long time to come (and as for the advertising parts, I’ll get to that below).Second, as I noted in that Update, another reason for Netflix to not aggressively spend on licensing programming from other studios is that they haven’t gotten desperate enough:I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.Netflix is, to be clear, licensing the occasional show from other networks, but the point is they’re not going to overpay for them; that the company doesn’t want to go out of its way to help the other studios was made clear in the investor letter:From the early days of streaming, we saw partnerships with device makers and pay TV and mobile operators as key to ensuring Netflix was easy to find and use. These partnerships are a win-win — making it simple for people to discover, sign-up, use and pay for Netflix. In turn, our device and operator partners benefit through increased device sales from consumers seeking devices integrated with Netflix and greater customer acquisition and higher retention as well as the opportunity to upsell higher value data or content packages. We haven’t bundled Netflix solely with other streamers like Disney+ or Max because Netflix already operates as a go-to destination for entertainment thanks to the breadth and variety of our slate and superior product experience. This has driven industry leading penetration, engagement and retention for us, which limits the benefit to Netflix of bundling directly with other streamers.This hearkens back to Netflix’srefusal to join Apple’s TV app, and a topic I touched on in my interview with Peters earlier this year:One of the more interesting decisions was when Netflix wasn’t just available on a plethora of devices, but could also be sold by other vendors, like the cable companies. For nerds like me that are very interested in these aspects of business, that was a big decision. What made you decide that you could own the customer without owning the billing relationship? Was that a controversial decision? Or is owning the customer the wrong way to think about that?GP:No, I think people talk about owning the customer and there are many dimensions of what that “ownership” means, right? What I’d like to say is just like, “What’s the relationship you have and what does the customer expect from you?”.There was some controversy in that because I would say we had a very good organic growth channel where we were signing up many millions of subscribers every quarter and we felt good about that. But what we realized, and really it’s an extension of the strategy, the core ubiquity strategy, which is we found with every pocket of new devices that we added — and it started with the game consoles, which were this really large deploy base that was already connected to the Internet and connected to the TVs — we unlocked those and we had a super rush of growth, and we saw it through TV, smart TVs, et cetera. But a bunch of people were spending their time watching entertainment on their cable set top box as an example. The basic theory is we could unlock a same accelerant to growth by being there and that while to your point, there’s some aspect of that customer relationship we would have to give up in that mode, that quite frankly the most important part in what we negotiated for and fought for in those deals was that when people came to be entertained, they were using the Netflix experience basically.Right. So owning the customer from a Netflix perspective is about the discovery experience, the actual interaction. We saw this, to go back to Apple, you never joined the Apple TV experience because that was the aspect that was important to you.GP:That’s right, and that’s where we think we can add differential value. And quite frankly, we deferred to partners who add differential value in other ways, like billing. A big component of how we solve payments around the world, which is quite complicated and quite difficult, is we rely on their expertise. They’re so much better at trying to integrate with local payment systems and local payment culture and practices.I think that distinction between billing and the user interface is an important one; the other distinction highlighted by this section in the shareholder letter is between legacy and modern distribution strategies. In short, Netflix is fine partnering with cable companies, because cable television is in secular decline; however, the company believes that streaming is the future, so it doesn’t see any benefit in partnering with streaming companies, thus helping to prop up competitors that ought to be suppliers.This also clarifies the terms ofthat curious Comcast bundle announcementearlier this year, which included Comcast broadband and TV, Peacock, AppleTV+ and, surprisingly, Netflix.I theorized at the timethat Netflix may not have been giving up anything at all (beyond, perhaps, it’s normal partnership agreement with Comcast), and the fact the company so clearly stated it’s not interested in bundling with other streamers certainly suggests that is the case.Third, I made the casein Maythat the way to think about Netflix’s deal with the NFL is in terms of customer acquisition; another way to frame it — as co-CEO Ted Sarandos did — is as event programming, not inventory programming:How do you thread the needle on licensing sports to drive advertising spend without becoming beholden to leagues at renewal?Well, hopefully, exactly the way we’re doing it, by making these Netflix events, not necessarily taking on a lot of tonnage from any one league, by actually making these games events like having two NFL football games on Christmas Day and two great games, the Chiefs and the Steelers and the Ravens and the Texans. They’re both going to be great games, and it really creates a lot of real excitement with the service, and it’s one day of football.So when I look at that and I think along those lines, you can see how we solved for that in our WWE deal, which was economics that we like and live with and can grow into and contemplate with that expansion of cost and viewing would be over the — over, in that case, as long as 20 years if we want it to be.So I think it’s really not a matter of there’s an automatic disconnect between you can’t do sports and net profit. It’s very difficult to have big league sports and profit when you offer them entire seasons. But when you offer them in this event model that we’re building on, we’re really excited about our opportunity to do that without the risk that you’re talking about right now. And then beyond that, we are in love with the kind of very profitable storytelling version of sports. So if you can’t wait for those football games on Christmas Day, you can watch Receiver right now. It just started on July 10 on Netflix, which is part of that storytelling version of sports.In short, if Netflix thinks it can grow a sport beyond its costs, like the WWE (“sport”), they will consider a full rights deal; for sports like the NFL, though, that have long since maximized their rights fees, they are only interested in event programming to drive customer acquisition and, as a secondary benefit, drive interest (and probably access) for much cheaper shoulder programming.The Status of Netflix AdvertisingFrom Eric Seufert atMobile Dev Memo:Breaking with its recent trend, sequential ARPU growth in UCAN — Netflix’s largest subscriber segment — decreased in Q2 by 0.75%. I’ve arguedpersistentlysincebeforeNetflix’s advertising-supported tier was launched that it would be ARPU-dilutive; this appeared to be the case immediately after the introduction of the ad-supported tier, with subsequent ARPU increases taking place after the password sharing crackdown was put into effect and prices were raised. It seems that the impact from those policies has waned, with ARPU declining (albeit to a level that remains elevated from the pre-advertising baseline). For the first time since the tier was introduced, Netflix’s co-CEO [Greg Peters] stated this explicitly in its earnings call (emphasis mine; note that ARM here means Average Revenue per Member and is functionally equivalent to ARPU):And then on terms of ads arm, so ads arm, which is, of course, the combination of the subscription amount plus the ads revenue, currently because we’ve been scaling so rapidly, we are not — we’re racing behind essentially to fulfill all of that increasing inventory and we’re lagging in that regard. Socurrently, our ads arm is lower than our non-ads arm. And that’s obviously — we look at that as both — it’s a go do but it’s a revenue growth opportunity for us as we scale into that, that represents an opportunity to accelerate our revenue growth as well.…That growth in the ad-tier’s adoption is slowing while it remains a minority of new subscriptions is a curious development. I argue inIs Netflix’s advertising business a success?that the goal of introducing the ad-supported tier — monetizing consumers that couldn’t or wouldn’t pay for Netflix at other price points — likely isn’t being met currently, and that reducing the price point to $0 as a Free Ad-Supported Streaming Television (FAST) option is the most viable path for the tier’s success. Note that Netflix’s two slowest-growing regions — UCAN and EMEA — have the highest concentration of countries that feature the ad-supported tier.I argued last year inThe Unified Content Business Modelthat the natural end state for all content businesses was a combination of free-and-ad-supported and subscription-with-no-ads (ideally the content is the same on both, to maximize leverage); the key thing about “free” is that it maximizes volume on the ad-supported tier, which dramatically increases leverage on advertising businesses that are expensive to build.The challenge for Netflix is that they, unlike YouTube, started out as a pure subscription play, which means that the path from here to there must pass through the valley of potential cannibalization; that is why Peters was pretty skeptical about the idea during thataforementioned interview:I think the answer to your question about free/not free might be market-by-market but I do believe under the current model we’re in in the United States, for example, I think we can get to 80%, 85% penetration in the model we’re in, and then when you think about the ultimate goal is long-term revenue optimization, going to free probably isn’t the best way to get there. Now, that may not be the case in every country around the world and there’s countries that have very strong free-to-air and/or ad-based entertainment models and it may be that in a Japan or Germany, something along those lines might get you there. But I’d say it’s a complex model to think about the trade-offs between cannibalization on subscription and how do you make all that math work? But that’s the kind of stuff that we do every day and we’ll keep doing.To that end, it was notable on the earnings call that Peters indicated Netflix could actuallyraiseprices on its ad-tier (I’ve excerpted the specific question and answer from a multi-part question and answer):Would you consider raising the price of ad-supported tiers as an offset?So you mentioned price. We think about pricing for ads tier very similarly to how we would think about pricing for our non-ads tier. First of all, I just think it’s worth noting that we love having an entry price that’s lower. That means we are more accessible for more people in our ads market. That’s a great thing because they get access to all the amazing storytelling that we are doing there. But in terms of raising that price, we think about it similar to how we think about pricing in general, which is where it’s our job to increase the value that we are delivering all of our members. We’ve got more amazing film, more series, the live events that are coming, more games. And when we have signals from our members, this is the amount of acquisition that we’ve got going on, engagement, what our retention and churn looks like, then we find the right moment to ask our members to pay a bit more to keep that flywheel spinning. And we’ll think about that in the ads context just like we would in the non-ads context.This answer clearly runs in the opposite direction of where Seufert and I have our heads at; any potential price raise for the ads tier woulddecreasevolume, which isn’t good for the advertising business. On the other hand, raising prices may be the best choice for revenue optimization, as Peters noted.I do think this changes how we should think about Netflix’s ad business. First, to answer Seufert’s question, to the extent Netflix views itself as a subscription business, I think you can make the case that Netflix’s ads business is already a success, precisely because it is driving new subscribers. In other words, the goal appears to have been to offer a lower price, both for marginal subscribers and also previous password-sharers, while giving Netflix greater scope to raise prices on its non-ad plans (all of which I noted inWhy Netflix Should Sell Ads), as opposed to building a material revenue driver. Indeed, CFO Spencer Neumann cited the “attractive entry point in terms of price point and feature set for our ads plan” as one of the factors driving subscriber growth.Second, this could explain why Netflix capitulated (to useSeufert’s term) and announced it would start using third-party ad networks; yes, the company is investing in its own ad server, and could always cut off third-party ads in the future, but this specific decision sets the expectation that advertising revenue is something that is nice to add to the core subscription business, as opposed to the long-term future of the business (which may have driven a longer-term approach in terms of foregoing commoditized revenue now).Third, it’s possible that Netflix has scaled back its ad ambitions somewhat in light of Amazon’s move to make Prime Video ad-supported by default; from theWall Street Journal last month:Amazon.com has thrown a wrench into Netflix’s advertising plans. Netflix is charging less for ads and embracing new offerings such as product placement, according to ad buyers, as the streaming company looks to keep expanding an ad business that faces growing competition. The streaming ad market was upended earlier this year when Amazon converted its entire Prime Video subscriber base to a new ad-supported version, giving customers a chance to switch back to ad-free streaming for an extra $2.99 a month.Prime Video’s large ad-supported subscriber base means it has a significant amount of ad inventory that is affecting the negotiations that Netflix, YouTube, TV networks and other streamers are having with advertisers as they commit to buying billions of dollars in commercial time for the coming TV season—a process known as the “upfronts.”“The Unified Content Business Model” may have ultimately been too simplistic. Specifically, while it’s correct that any at-scale content business does need to have both ad-supported and subscription-based options, it may be the case that the real decision for executives is which one is the primary model. For YouTube, and now Prime Video, the primary model is advertising, which means the top priority in terms of decision-making and investment is about driving scale; if some customers would prefer to have no ads they can pay for that, but it’s not the default. The other approach is where Netflix seems to be settling, which is viewing ads primarily as a way to expand the addressable market for their subscription business (and likely eschewing free).The key point in drawing this distinction is that the latter need to accept they won’t ever be truly competitive with the former when it comes to advertising; they will never have enough subscribers to have a truly competitive offering, and thus probably shouldn’t spend too much on building expensive infrastructure that only pays off at massive scale. Their ad space is, in the end, a commodity, because their primary goal — you only get one primary, by definition — isn’t to build an ad business.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019Apple Should Buy NetflixDateMonday, October 31, 2016←Crashes and CompetitionLlama 3.1; Zuckerberg on Open Source AI; Kamala Harris, Europe, and Tech Innovation→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Netflix Earnings, The Status of Netflix AdvertisingTuesday, July 23, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Several folks (including — full disclosure — Microsoft PR) responded to yesterday’sCrashes and Competitionto note thatCrowdStrike has been crashing Linux-based computers as well; my mistake was in stating that Linux had cut off kernel access. In truth, while Linux (like Windows) has provided hooks for security vendors that doesn’t require kernel access, you can obviously configure Linux however you want given its open-source nature; Apple is unique in its unilateral ability to force all 3rd-parties to only operate in user space (which, I should also clarify,users can overridein macOS).On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. extended its lead over the streaming competition, adding 8.05 million customers in the second quarter and raising estimates for annual sales and profit margins. The subscriber results, announced in a shareholder letter Thursday, topped expectations in every region around the world and included 2.8 million new customers in the Asia-Pacific. Analysts expected a total of 4.87 million on average.The company’s crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscriber plan with advertising propelled Netflix to its second-best first half, trailing only the pandemic-fueled boom in 2020. The less-costly plan accounted for almost half of sign-ups last quarter in markets where it’s offered, and the company said it will be large enough next year to appeal to major sponsors.This was an interesting set of earnings for a few reasons, and a much more revelatoryShareholder LetterandEarnings Callthan usual; I’m biased, because I feel like both confirmed several theories of the case I have put forward over the last couple of years.First, I wrote aboutNetflix’s Waiting Gamelast quarter:Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.To that end, the company talked extensively about its new TV homepage; co-CEO Greg Peters said on the earnings call:It’s hard to know exactly at this moment how much benefit that new home page will derive. I think it’s worth noting that it’s less about the improvements that we’re going to deliver initially, but it’s more about creating a structure that allows us to evolve and advance more freely than the current structure does. And in terms of what are the pain points, what are we trying to solve, a lot of this is getting to the increase in diversity of entertainment that we are now offering. So we’ve been amazing at film and series for a long period of time, but now increasingly, we’re adding live events into it. It’s live events like the Brady Roast, which was incredible, but it’s sort of a one-off event that we have to create demand for. It’s live events like WWE which are consistent and repeating that we want to make sure that fans of that experience have an easy way to access those things. We’re increasingly promoting games as well into our service. So what we found is we need to create structures that allow us to flexibly go from one type of content and entertainment to another in terms of how we’re promoting and connecting those. So there’s things like that.There’s also things like we want to increasingly recognize that we’re doing, even in the same content type, we’re doing different jobs for our users in different moments. And that could be Sunday afternoon family movie time, that would be a great experience that we want to provide exactly the right discovery and choosing experience for versus maybe late on Thursday night when you’re coming home and you just want to get into the next episode of the series that you’re currently cruising through. So it’s that kind of flexibility we want to provide. This is — our expectation is that this new structure will allow us to deliver, as the old structure did for a decade, multiple repetitive material benefits to users in terms of engagement, which lead into retention and then revenue. But again, that will be a long iterative journey and mostly, we’re trying to take that first step and set us up for that.The key takeaway is that this focus on improving recommendations and thus engagement is a project that is only just beginning; the business payoff in the long run from these efforts would be justifying the price increases that Netflix wants to “earn” for a long time to come (and as for the advertising parts, I’ll get to that below).Second, as I noted in that Update, another reason for Netflix to not aggressively spend on licensing programming from other studios is that they haven’t gotten desperate enough:I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.Netflix is, to be clear, licensing the occasional show from other networks, but the point is they’re not going to overpay for them; that the company doesn’t want to go out of its way to help the other studios was made clear in the investor letter:From the early days of streaming, we saw partnerships with device makers and pay TV and mobile operators as key to ensuring Netflix was easy to find and use. These partnerships are a win-win — making it simple for people to discover, sign-up, use and pay for Netflix. In turn, our device and operator partners benefit through increased device sales from consumers seeking devices integrated with Netflix and greater customer acquisition and higher retention as well as the opportunity to upsell higher value data or content packages. We haven’t bundled Netflix solely with other streamers like Disney+ or Max because Netflix already operates as a go-to destination for entertainment thanks to the breadth and variety of our slate and superior product experience. This has driven industry leading penetration, engagement and retention for us, which limits the benefit to Netflix of bundling directly with other streamers.This hearkens back to Netflix’srefusal to join Apple’s TV app, and a topic I touched on in my interview with Peters earlier this year:One of the more interesting decisions was when Netflix wasn’t just available on a plethora of devices, but could also be sold by other vendors, like the cable companies. For nerds like me that are very interested in these aspects of business, that was a big decision. What made you decide that you could own the customer without owning the billing relationship? Was that a controversial decision? Or is owning the customer the wrong way to think about that?GP:No, I think people talk about owning the customer and there are many dimensions of what that “ownership” means, right? What I’d like to say is just like, “What’s the relationship you have and what does the customer expect from you?”.There was some controversy in that because I would say we had a very good organic growth channel where we were signing up many millions of subscribers every quarter and we felt good about that. But what we realized, and really it’s an extension of the strategy, the core ubiquity strategy, which is we found with every pocket of new devices that we added — and it started with the game consoles, which were this really large deploy base that was already connected to the Internet and connected to the TVs — we unlocked those and we had a super rush of growth, and we saw it through TV, smart TVs, et cetera. But a bunch of people were spending their time watching entertainment on their cable set top box as an example. The basic theory is we could unlock a same accelerant to growth by being there and that while to your point, there’s some aspect of that customer relationship we would have to give up in that mode, that quite frankly the most important part in what we negotiated for and fought for in those deals was that when people came to be entertained, they were using the Netflix experience basically.Right. So owning the customer from a Netflix perspective is about the discovery experience, the actual interaction. We saw this, to go back to Apple, you never joined the Apple TV experience because that was the aspect that was important to you.GP:That’s right, and that’s where we think we can add differential value. And quite frankly, we deferred to partners who add differential value in other ways, like billing. A big component of how we solve payments around the world, which is quite complicated and quite difficult, is we rely on their expertise. They’re so much better at trying to integrate with local payment systems and local payment culture and practices.I think that distinction between billing and the user interface is an important one; the other distinction highlighted by this section in the shareholder letter is between legacy and modern distribution strategies. In short, Netflix is fine partnering with cable companies, because cable television is in secular decline; however, the company believes that streaming is the future, so it doesn’t see any benefit in partnering with streaming companies, thus helping to prop up competitors that ought to be suppliers.This also clarifies the terms ofthat curious Comcast bundle announcementearlier this year, which included Comcast broadband and TV, Peacock, AppleTV+ and, surprisingly, Netflix.I theorized at the timethat Netflix may not have been giving up anything at all (beyond, perhaps, it’s normal partnership agreement with Comcast), and the fact the company so clearly stated it’s not interested in bundling with other streamers certainly suggests that is the case.Third, I made the casein Maythat the way to think about Netflix’s deal with the NFL is in terms of customer acquisition; another way to frame it — as co-CEO Ted Sarandos did — is as event programming, not inventory programming:How do you thread the needle on licensing sports to drive advertising spend without becoming beholden to leagues at renewal?Well, hopefully, exactly the way we’re doing it, by making these Netflix events, not necessarily taking on a lot of tonnage from any one league, by actually making these games events like having two NFL football games on Christmas Day and two great games, the Chiefs and the Steelers and the Ravens and the Texans. They’re both going to be great games, and it really creates a lot of real excitement with the service, and it’s one day of football.So when I look at that and I think along those lines, you can see how we solved for that in our WWE deal, which was economics that we like and live with and can grow into and contemplate with that expansion of cost and viewing would be over the — over, in that case, as long as 20 years if we want it to be.So I think it’s really not a matter of there’s an automatic disconnect between you can’t do sports and net profit. It’s very difficult to have big league sports and profit when you offer them entire seasons. But when you offer them in this event model that we’re building on, we’re really excited about our opportunity to do that without the risk that you’re talking about right now. And then beyond that, we are in love with the kind of very profitable storytelling version of sports. So if you can’t wait for those football games on Christmas Day, you can watch Receiver right now. It just started on July 10 on Netflix, which is part of that storytelling version of sports.In short, if Netflix thinks it can grow a sport beyond its costs, like the WWE (“sport”), they will consider a full rights deal; for sports like the NFL, though, that have long since maximized their rights fees, they are only interested in event programming to drive customer acquisition and, as a secondary benefit, drive interest (and probably access) for much cheaper shoulder programming.The Status of Netflix AdvertisingFrom Eric Seufert atMobile Dev Memo:Breaking with its recent trend, sequential ARPU growth in UCAN — Netflix’s largest subscriber segment — decreased in Q2 by 0.75%. I’ve arguedpersistentlysincebeforeNetflix’s advertising-supported tier was launched that it would be ARPU-dilutive; this appeared to be the case immediately after the introduction of the ad-supported tier, with subsequent ARPU increases taking place after the password sharing crackdown was put into effect and prices were raised. It seems that the impact from those policies has waned, with ARPU declining (albeit to a level that remains elevated from the pre-advertising baseline). For the first time since the tier was introduced, Netflix’s co-CEO [Greg Peters] stated this explicitly in its earnings call (emphasis mine; note that ARM here means Average Revenue per Member and is functionally equivalent to ARPU):And then on terms of ads arm, so ads arm, which is, of course, the combination of the subscription amount plus the ads revenue, currently because we’ve been scaling so rapidly, we are not — we’re racing behind essentially to fulfill all of that increasing inventory and we’re lagging in that regard. Socurrently, our ads arm is lower than our non-ads arm. And that’s obviously — we look at that as both — it’s a go do but it’s a revenue growth opportunity for us as we scale into that, that represents an opportunity to accelerate our revenue growth as well.…That growth in the ad-tier’s adoption is slowing while it remains a minority of new subscriptions is a curious development. I argue inIs Netflix’s advertising business a success?that the goal of introducing the ad-supported tier — monetizing consumers that couldn’t or wouldn’t pay for Netflix at other price points — likely isn’t being met currently, and that reducing the price point to $0 as a Free Ad-Supported Streaming Television (FAST) option is the most viable path for the tier’s success. Note that Netflix’s two slowest-growing regions — UCAN and EMEA — have the highest concentration of countries that feature the ad-supported tier.I argued last year inThe Unified Content Business Modelthat the natural end state for all content businesses was a combination of free-and-ad-supported and subscription-with-no-ads (ideally the content is the same on both, to maximize leverage); the key thing about “free” is that it maximizes volume on the ad-supported tier, which dramatically increases leverage on advertising businesses that are expensive to build.The challenge for Netflix is that they, unlike YouTube, started out as a pure subscription play, which means that the path from here to there must pass through the valley of potential cannibalization; that is why Peters was pretty skeptical about the idea during thataforementioned interview:I think the answer to your question about free/not free might be market-by-market but I do believe under the current model we’re in in the United States, for example, I think we can get to 80%, 85% penetration in the model we’re in, and then when you think about the ultimate goal is long-term revenue optimization, going to free probably isn’t the best way to get there. Now, that may not be the case in every country around the world and there’s countries that have very strong free-to-air and/or ad-based entertainment models and it may be that in a Japan or Germany, something along those lines might get you there. But I’d say it’s a complex model to think about the trade-offs between cannibalization on subscription and how do you make all that math work? But that’s the kind of stuff that we do every day and we’ll keep doing.To that end, it was notable on the earnings call that Peters indicated Netflix could actuallyraiseprices on its ad-tier (I’ve excerpted the specific question and answer from a multi-part question and answer):Would you consider raising the price of ad-supported tiers as an offset?So you mentioned price. We think about pricing for ads tier very similarly to how we would think about pricing for our non-ads tier. First of all, I just think it’s worth noting that we love having an entry price that’s lower. That means we are more accessible for more people in our ads market. That’s a great thing because they get access to all the amazing storytelling that we are doing there. But in terms of raising that price, we think about it similar to how we think about pricing in general, which is where it’s our job to increase the value that we are delivering all of our members. We’ve got more amazing film, more series, the live events that are coming, more games. And when we have signals from our members, this is the amount of acquisition that we’ve got going on, engagement, what our retention and churn looks like, then we find the right moment to ask our members to pay a bit more to keep that flywheel spinning. And we’ll think about that in the ads context just like we would in the non-ads context.This answer clearly runs in the opposite direction of where Seufert and I have our heads at; any potential price raise for the ads tier woulddecreasevolume, which isn’t good for the advertising business. On the other hand, raising prices may be the best choice for revenue optimization, as Peters noted.I do think this changes how we should think about Netflix’s ad business. First, to answer Seufert’s question, to the extent Netflix views itself as a subscription business, I think you can make the case that Netflix’s ads business is already a success, precisely because it is driving new subscribers. In other words, the goal appears to have been to offer a lower price, both for marginal subscribers and also previous password-sharers, while giving Netflix greater scope to raise prices on its non-ad plans (all of which I noted inWhy Netflix Should Sell Ads), as opposed to building a material revenue driver. Indeed, CFO Spencer Neumann cited the “attractive entry point in terms of price point and feature set for our ads plan” as one of the factors driving subscriber growth.Second, this could explain why Netflix capitulated (to useSeufert’s term) and announced it would start using third-party ad networks; yes, the company is investing in its own ad server, and could always cut off third-party ads in the future, but this specific decision sets the expectation that advertising revenue is something that is nice to add to the core subscription business, as opposed to the long-term future of the business (which may have driven a longer-term approach in terms of foregoing commoditized revenue now).Third, it’s possible that Netflix has scaled back its ad ambitions somewhat in light of Amazon’s move to make Prime Video ad-supported by default; from theWall Street Journal last month:Amazon.com has thrown a wrench into Netflix’s advertising plans. Netflix is charging less for ads and embracing new offerings such as product placement, according to ad buyers, as the streaming company looks to keep expanding an ad business that faces growing competition. The streaming ad market was upended earlier this year when Amazon converted its entire Prime Video subscriber base to a new ad-supported version, giving customers a chance to switch back to ad-free streaming for an extra $2.99 a month.Prime Video’s large ad-supported subscriber base means it has a significant amount of ad inventory that is affecting the negotiations that Netflix, YouTube, TV networks and other streamers are having with advertisers as they commit to buying billions of dollars in commercial time for the coming TV season—a process known as the “upfronts.”“The Unified Content Business Model” may have ultimately been too simplistic. Specifically, while it’s correct that any at-scale content business does need to have both ad-supported and subscription-based options, it may be the case that the real decision for executives is which one is the primary model. For YouTube, and now Prime Video, the primary model is advertising, which means the top priority in terms of decision-making and investment is about driving scale; if some customers would prefer to have no ads they can pay for that, but it’s not the default. The other approach is where Netflix seems to be settling, which is viewing ads primarily as a way to expand the addressable market for their subscription business (and likely eschewing free).The key point in drawing this distinction is that the latter need to accept they won’t ever be truly competitive with the former when it comes to advertising; they will never have enough subscribers to have a truly competitive offering, and thus probably shouldn’t spend too much on building expensive infrastructure that only pays off at massive scale. Their ad space is, in the end, a commodity, because their primary goal — you only get one primary, by definition — isn’t to build an ad business.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019Apple Should Buy NetflixDateMonday, October 31, 2016←Crashes and CompetitionLlama 3.1; Zuckerberg on Open Source AI; Kamala Harris, Europe, and Tech Innovation→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Several folks (including — full disclosure — Microsoft PR) responded to yesterday’sCrashes and Competitionto note thatCrowdStrike has been crashing Linux-based computers as well; my mistake was in stating that Linux had cut off kernel access. In truth, while Linux (like Windows) has provided hooks for security vendors that doesn’t require kernel access, you can obviously configure Linux however you want given its open-source nature; Apple is unique in its unilateral ability to force all 3rd-parties to only operate in user space (which, I should also clarify,users can overridein macOS).On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. extended its lead over the streaming competition, adding 8.05 million customers in the second quarter and raising estimates for annual sales and profit margins. The subscriber results, announced in a shareholder letter Thursday, topped expectations in every region around the world and included 2.8 million new customers in the Asia-Pacific. Analysts expected a total of 4.87 million on average.The company’s crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscriber plan with advertising propelled Netflix to its second-best first half, trailing only the pandemic-fueled boom in 2020. The less-costly plan accounted for almost half of sign-ups last quarter in markets where it’s offered, and the company said it will be large enough next year to appeal to major sponsors.This was an interesting set of earnings for a few reasons, and a much more revelatoryShareholder LetterandEarnings Callthan usual; I’m biased, because I feel like both confirmed several theories of the case I have put forward over the last couple of years.First, I wrote aboutNetflix’s Waiting Gamelast quarter:Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.To that end, the company talked extensively about its new TV homepage; co-CEO Greg Peters said on the earnings call:It’s hard to know exactly at this moment how much benefit that new home page will derive. I think it’s worth noting that it’s less about the improvements that we’re going to deliver initially, but it’s more about creating a structure that allows us to evolve and advance more freely than the current structure does. And in terms of what are the pain points, what are we trying to solve, a lot of this is getting to the increase in diversity of entertainment that we are now offering. So we’ve been amazing at film and series for a long period of time, but now increasingly, we’re adding live events into it. It’s live events like the Brady Roast, which was incredible, but it’s sort of a one-off event that we have to create demand for. It’s live events like WWE which are consistent and repeating that we want to make sure that fans of that experience have an easy way to access those things. We’re increasingly promoting games as well into our service. So what we found is we need to create structures that allow us to flexibly go from one type of content and entertainment to another in terms of how we’re promoting and connecting those. So there’s things like that.There’s also things like we want to increasingly recognize that we’re doing, even in the same content type, we’re doing different jobs for our users in different moments. And that could be Sunday afternoon family movie time, that would be a great experience that we want to provide exactly the right discovery and choosing experience for versus maybe late on Thursday night when you’re coming home and you just want to get into the next episode of the series that you’re currently cruising through. So it’s that kind of flexibility we want to provide. This is — our expectation is that this new structure will allow us to deliver, as the old structure did for a decade, multiple repetitive material benefits to users in terms of engagement, which lead into retention and then revenue. But again, that will be a long iterative journey and mostly, we’re trying to take that first step and set us up for that.The key takeaway is that this focus on improving recommendations and thus engagement is a project that is only just beginning; the business payoff in the long run from these efforts would be justifying the price increases that Netflix wants to “earn” for a long time to come (and as for the advertising parts, I’ll get to that below).Second, as I noted in that Update, another reason for Netflix to not aggressively spend on licensing programming from other studios is that they haven’t gotten desperate enough:I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.Netflix is, to be clear, licensing the occasional show from other networks, but the point is they’re not going to overpay for them; that the company doesn’t want to go out of its way to help the other studios was made clear in the investor letter:From the early days of streaming, we saw partnerships with device makers and pay TV and mobile operators as key to ensuring Netflix was easy to find and use. These partnerships are a win-win — making it simple for people to discover, sign-up, use and pay for Netflix. In turn, our device and operator partners benefit through increased device sales from consumers seeking devices integrated with Netflix and greater customer acquisition and higher retention as well as the opportunity to upsell higher value data or content packages. We haven’t bundled Netflix solely with other streamers like Disney+ or Max because Netflix already operates as a go-to destination for entertainment thanks to the breadth and variety of our slate and superior product experience. This has driven industry leading penetration, engagement and retention for us, which limits the benefit to Netflix of bundling directly with other streamers.This hearkens back to Netflix’srefusal to join Apple’s TV app, and a topic I touched on in my interview with Peters earlier this year:One of the more interesting decisions was when Netflix wasn’t just available on a plethora of devices, but could also be sold by other vendors, like the cable companies. For nerds like me that are very interested in these aspects of business, that was a big decision. What made you decide that you could own the customer without owning the billing relationship? Was that a controversial decision? Or is owning the customer the wrong way to think about that?GP:No, I think people talk about owning the customer and there are many dimensions of what that “ownership” means, right? What I’d like to say is just like, “What’s the relationship you have and what does the customer expect from you?”.There was some controversy in that because I would say we had a very good organic growth channel where we were signing up many millions of subscribers every quarter and we felt good about that. But what we realized, and really it’s an extension of the strategy, the core ubiquity strategy, which is we found with every pocket of new devices that we added — and it started with the game consoles, which were this really large deploy base that was already connected to the Internet and connected to the TVs — we unlocked those and we had a super rush of growth, and we saw it through TV, smart TVs, et cetera. But a bunch of people were spending their time watching entertainment on their cable set top box as an example. The basic theory is we could unlock a same accelerant to growth by being there and that while to your point, there’s some aspect of that customer relationship we would have to give up in that mode, that quite frankly the most important part in what we negotiated for and fought for in those deals was that when people came to be entertained, they were using the Netflix experience basically.Right. So owning the customer from a Netflix perspective is about the discovery experience, the actual interaction. We saw this, to go back to Apple, you never joined the Apple TV experience because that was the aspect that was important to you.GP:That’s right, and that’s where we think we can add differential value. And quite frankly, we deferred to partners who add differential value in other ways, like billing. A big component of how we solve payments around the world, which is quite complicated and quite difficult, is we rely on their expertise. They’re so much better at trying to integrate with local payment systems and local payment culture and practices.I think that distinction between billing and the user interface is an important one; the other distinction highlighted by this section in the shareholder letter is between legacy and modern distribution strategies. In short, Netflix is fine partnering with cable companies, because cable television is in secular decline; however, the company believes that streaming is the future, so it doesn’t see any benefit in partnering with streaming companies, thus helping to prop up competitors that ought to be suppliers.This also clarifies the terms ofthat curious Comcast bundle announcementearlier this year, which included Comcast broadband and TV, Peacock, AppleTV+ and, surprisingly, Netflix.I theorized at the timethat Netflix may not have been giving up anything at all (beyond, perhaps, it’s normal partnership agreement with Comcast), and the fact the company so clearly stated it’s not interested in bundling with other streamers certainly suggests that is the case.Third, I made the casein Maythat the way to think about Netflix’s deal with the NFL is in terms of customer acquisition; another way to frame it — as co-CEO Ted Sarandos did — is as event programming, not inventory programming:How do you thread the needle on licensing sports to drive advertising spend without becoming beholden to leagues at renewal?Well, hopefully, exactly the way we’re doing it, by making these Netflix events, not necessarily taking on a lot of tonnage from any one league, by actually making these games events like having two NFL football games on Christmas Day and two great games, the Chiefs and the Steelers and the Ravens and the Texans. They’re both going to be great games, and it really creates a lot of real excitement with the service, and it’s one day of football.So when I look at that and I think along those lines, you can see how we solved for that in our WWE deal, which was economics that we like and live with and can grow into and contemplate with that expansion of cost and viewing would be over the — over, in that case, as long as 20 years if we want it to be.So I think it’s really not a matter of there’s an automatic disconnect between you can’t do sports and net profit. It’s very difficult to have big league sports and profit when you offer them entire seasons. But when you offer them in this event model that we’re building on, we’re really excited about our opportunity to do that without the risk that you’re talking about right now. And then beyond that, we are in love with the kind of very profitable storytelling version of sports. So if you can’t wait for those football games on Christmas Day, you can watch Receiver right now. It just started on July 10 on Netflix, which is part of that storytelling version of sports.In short, if Netflix thinks it can grow a sport beyond its costs, like the WWE (“sport”), they will consider a full rights deal; for sports like the NFL, though, that have long since maximized their rights fees, they are only interested in event programming to drive customer acquisition and, as a secondary benefit, drive interest (and probably access) for much cheaper shoulder programming.The Status of Netflix AdvertisingFrom Eric Seufert atMobile Dev Memo:Breaking with its recent trend, sequential ARPU growth in UCAN — Netflix’s largest subscriber segment — decreased in Q2 by 0.75%. I’ve arguedpersistentlysincebeforeNetflix’s advertising-supported tier was launched that it would be ARPU-dilutive; this appeared to be the case immediately after the introduction of the ad-supported tier, with subsequent ARPU increases taking place after the password sharing crackdown was put into effect and prices were raised. It seems that the impact from those policies has waned, with ARPU declining (albeit to a level that remains elevated from the pre-advertising baseline). For the first time since the tier was introduced, Netflix’s co-CEO [Greg Peters] stated this explicitly in its earnings call (emphasis mine; note that ARM here means Average Revenue per Member and is functionally equivalent to ARPU):And then on terms of ads arm, so ads arm, which is, of course, the combination of the subscription amount plus the ads revenue, currently because we’ve been scaling so rapidly, we are not — we’re racing behind essentially to fulfill all of that increasing inventory and we’re lagging in that regard. Socurrently, our ads arm is lower than our non-ads arm. And that’s obviously — we look at that as both — it’s a go do but it’s a revenue growth opportunity for us as we scale into that, that represents an opportunity to accelerate our revenue growth as well.…That growth in the ad-tier’s adoption is slowing while it remains a minority of new subscriptions is a curious development. I argue inIs Netflix’s advertising business a success?that the goal of introducing the ad-supported tier — monetizing consumers that couldn’t or wouldn’t pay for Netflix at other price points — likely isn’t being met currently, and that reducing the price point to $0 as a Free Ad-Supported Streaming Television (FAST) option is the most viable path for the tier’s success. Note that Netflix’s two slowest-growing regions — UCAN and EMEA — have the highest concentration of countries that feature the ad-supported tier.I argued last year inThe Unified Content Business Modelthat the natural end state for all content businesses was a combination of free-and-ad-supported and subscription-with-no-ads (ideally the content is the same on both, to maximize leverage); the key thing about “free” is that it maximizes volume on the ad-supported tier, which dramatically increases leverage on advertising businesses that are expensive to build.The challenge for Netflix is that they, unlike YouTube, started out as a pure subscription play, which means that the path from here to there must pass through the valley of potential cannibalization; that is why Peters was pretty skeptical about the idea during thataforementioned interview:I think the answer to your question about free/not free might be market-by-market but I do believe under the current model we’re in in the United States, for example, I think we can get to 80%, 85% penetration in the model we’re in, and then when you think about the ultimate goal is long-term revenue optimization, going to free probably isn’t the best way to get there. Now, that may not be the case in every country around the world and there’s countries that have very strong free-to-air and/or ad-based entertainment models and it may be that in a Japan or Germany, something along those lines might get you there. But I’d say it’s a complex model to think about the trade-offs between cannibalization on subscription and how do you make all that math work? But that’s the kind of stuff that we do every day and we’ll keep doing.To that end, it was notable on the earnings call that Peters indicated Netflix could actuallyraiseprices on its ad-tier (I’ve excerpted the specific question and answer from a multi-part question and answer):Would you consider raising the price of ad-supported tiers as an offset?So you mentioned price. We think about pricing for ads tier very similarly to how we would think about pricing for our non-ads tier. First of all, I just think it’s worth noting that we love having an entry price that’s lower. That means we are more accessible for more people in our ads market. That’s a great thing because they get access to all the amazing storytelling that we are doing there. But in terms of raising that price, we think about it similar to how we think about pricing in general, which is where it’s our job to increase the value that we are delivering all of our members. We’ve got more amazing film, more series, the live events that are coming, more games. And when we have signals from our members, this is the amount of acquisition that we’ve got going on, engagement, what our retention and churn looks like, then we find the right moment to ask our members to pay a bit more to keep that flywheel spinning. And we’ll think about that in the ads context just like we would in the non-ads context.This answer clearly runs in the opposite direction of where Seufert and I have our heads at; any potential price raise for the ads tier woulddecreasevolume, which isn’t good for the advertising business. On the other hand, raising prices may be the best choice for revenue optimization, as Peters noted.I do think this changes how we should think about Netflix’s ad business. First, to answer Seufert’s question, to the extent Netflix views itself as a subscription business, I think you can make the case that Netflix’s ads business is already a success, precisely because it is driving new subscribers. In other words, the goal appears to have been to offer a lower price, both for marginal subscribers and also previous password-sharers, while giving Netflix greater scope to raise prices on its non-ad plans (all of which I noted inWhy Netflix Should Sell Ads), as opposed to building a material revenue driver. Indeed, CFO Spencer Neumann cited the “attractive entry point in terms of price point and feature set for our ads plan” as one of the factors driving subscriber growth.Second, this could explain why Netflix capitulated (to useSeufert’s term) and announced it would start using third-party ad networks; yes, the company is investing in its own ad server, and could always cut off third-party ads in the future, but this specific decision sets the expectation that advertising revenue is something that is nice to add to the core subscription business, as opposed to the long-term future of the business (which may have driven a longer-term approach in terms of foregoing commoditized revenue now).Third, it’s possible that Netflix has scaled back its ad ambitions somewhat in light of Amazon’s move to make Prime Video ad-supported by default; from theWall Street Journal last month:Amazon.com has thrown a wrench into Netflix’s advertising plans. Netflix is charging less for ads and embracing new offerings such as product placement, according to ad buyers, as the streaming company looks to keep expanding an ad business that faces growing competition. The streaming ad market was upended earlier this year when Amazon converted its entire Prime Video subscriber base to a new ad-supported version, giving customers a chance to switch back to ad-free streaming for an extra $2.99 a month.Prime Video’s large ad-supported subscriber base means it has a significant amount of ad inventory that is affecting the negotiations that Netflix, YouTube, TV networks and other streamers are having with advertisers as they commit to buying billions of dollars in commercial time for the coming TV season—a process known as the “upfronts.”“The Unified Content Business Model” may have ultimately been too simplistic. Specifically, while it’s correct that any at-scale content business does need to have both ad-supported and subscription-based options, it may be the case that the real decision for executives is which one is the primary model. For YouTube, and now Prime Video, the primary model is advertising, which means the top priority in terms of decision-making and investment is about driving scale; if some customers would prefer to have no ads they can pay for that, but it’s not the default. The other approach is where Netflix seems to be settling, which is viewing ads primarily as a way to expand the addressable market for their subscription business (and likely eschewing free).The key point in drawing this distinction is that the latter need to accept they won’t ever be truly competitive with the former when it comes to advertising; they will never have enough subscribers to have a truly competitive offering, and thus probably shouldn’t spend too much on building expensive infrastructure that only pays off at massive scale. Their ad space is, in the end, a commodity, because their primary goal — you only get one primary, by definition — isn’t to build an ad business.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Several folks (including — full disclosure — Microsoft PR) responded to yesterday’sCrashes and Competitionto note thatCrowdStrike has been crashing Linux-based computers as well; my mistake was in stating that Linux had cut off kernel access. In truth, while Linux (like Windows) has provided hooks for security vendors that doesn’t require kernel access, you can obviously configure Linux however you want given its open-source nature; Apple is unique in its unilateral ability to force all 3rd-parties to only operate in user space (which, I should also clarify,users can overridein macOS). Netflix Inc. extended its lead over the streaming competition, adding 8.05 million customers in the second quarter and raising estimates for annual sales and profit margins. The subscriber results, announced in a shareholder letter Thursday, topped expectations in every region around the world and included 2.8 million new customers in the Asia-Pacific. Analysts expected a total of 4.87 million on average. The company’s crackdown on password sharing and the introduction of a lower-priced subscriber plan with advertising propelled Netflix to its second-best first half, trailing only the pandemic-fueled boom in 2020. The less-costly plan accounted for almost half of sign-ups last quarter in markets where it’s offered, and the company said it will be large enough next year to appeal to major sponsors. This was an interesting set of earnings for a few reasons, and a much more revelatoryShareholder LetterandEarnings Callthan usual; I’m biased, because I feel like both confirmed several theories of the case I have put forward over the last couple of years. Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content. It’s hard to know exactly at this moment how much benefit that new home page will derive. I think it’s worth noting that it’s less about the improvements that we’re going to deliver initially, but it’s more about creating a structure that allows us to evolve and advance more freely than the current structure does. And in terms of what are the pain points, what are we trying to solve, a lot of this is getting to the increase in diversity of entertainment that we are now offering. So we’ve been amazing at film and series for a long period of time, but now increasingly, we’re adding live events into it. It’s live events like the Brady Roast, which was incredible, but it’s sort of a one-off event that we have to create demand for. It’s live events like WWE which are consistent and repeating that we want to make sure that fans of that experience have an easy way to access those things. We’re increasingly promoting games as well into our service. So what we found is we need to create structures that allow us to flexibly go from one type of content and entertainment to another in terms of how we’re promoting and connecting those. So there’s things like that. There’s also things like we want to increasingly recognize that we’re doing, even in the same content type, we’re doing different jobs for our users in different moments. And that could be Sunday afternoon family movie time, that would be a great experience that we want to provide exactly the right discovery and choosing experience for versus maybe late on Thursday night when you’re coming home and you just want to get into the next episode of the series that you’re currently cruising through. So it’s that kind of flexibility we want to provide. This is — our expectation is that this new structure will allow us to deliver, as the old structure did for a decade, multiple repetitive material benefits to users in terms of engagement, which lead into retention and then revenue. But again, that will be a long iterative journey and mostly, we’re trying to take that first step and set us up for that. The key takeaway is that this focus on improving recommendations and thus engagement is a project that is only just beginning; the business payoff in the long run from these efforts would be justifying the price increases that Netflix wants to “earn” for a long time to come (and as for the advertising parts, I’ll get to that below). I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need. Netflix is, to be clear, licensing the occasional show from other networks, but the point is they’re not going to overpay for them; that the company doesn’t want to go out of its way to help the other studios was made clear in the investor letter: From the early days of streaming, we saw partnerships with device makers and pay TV and mobile operators as key to ensuring Netflix was easy to find and use. These partnerships are a win-win — making it simple for people to discover, sign-up, use and pay for Netflix. In turn, our device and operator partners benefit through increased device sales from consumers seeking devices integrated with Netflix and greater customer acquisition and higher retention as well as the opportunity to upsell higher value data or content packages. We haven’t bundled Netflix solely with other streamers like Disney+ or Max because Netflix already operates as a go-to destination for entertainment thanks to the breadth and variety of our slate and superior product experience. This has driven industry leading penetration, engagement and retention for us, which limits the benefit to Netflix of bundling directly with other streamers. One of the more interesting decisions was when Netflix wasn’t just available on a plethora of devices, but could also be sold by other vendors, like the cable companies. For nerds like me that are very interested in these aspects of business, that was a big decision. What made you decide that you could own the customer without owning the billing relationship? Was that a controversial decision? Or is owning the customer the wrong way to think about that? GP:No, I think people talk about owning the customer and there are many dimensions of what that “ownership” means, right? What I’d like to say is just like, “What’s the relationship you have and what does the customer expect from you?”. There was some controversy in that because I would say we had a very good organic growth channel where we were signing up many millions of subscribers every quarter and we felt good about that. But what we realized, and really it’s an extension of the strategy, the core ubiquity strategy, which is we found with every pocket of new devices that we added — and it started with the game consoles, which were this really large deploy base that was already connected to the Internet and connected to the TVs — we unlocked those and we had a super rush of growth, and we saw it through TV, smart TVs, et cetera. But a bunch of people were spending their time watching entertainment on their cable set top box as an example. The basic theory is we could unlock a same accelerant to growth by being there and that while to your point, there’s some aspect of that customer relationship we would have to give up in that mode, that quite frankly the most important part in what we negotiated for and fought for in those deals was that when people came to be entertained, they were using the Netflix experience basically. Right. So owning the customer from a Netflix perspective is about the discovery experience, the actual interaction. We saw this, to go back to Apple, you never joined the Apple TV experience because that was the aspect that was important to you. GP:That’s right, and that’s where we think we can add differential value. And quite frankly, we deferred to partners who add differential value in other ways, like billing. A big component of how we solve payments around the world, which is quite complicated and quite difficult, is we rely on their expertise. They’re so much better at trying to integrate with local payment systems and local payment culture and practices. I think that distinction between billing and the user interface is an important one; the other distinction highlighted by this section in the shareholder letter is between legacy and modern distribution strategies. In short, Netflix is fine partnering with cable companies, because cable television is in secular decline; however, the company believes that streaming is the future, so it doesn’t see any benefit in partnering with streaming companies, thus helping to prop up competitors that ought to be suppliers. This also clarifies the terms ofthat curious Comcast bundle announcementearlier this year, which included Comcast broadband and TV, Peacock, AppleTV+ and, surprisingly, Netflix.I theorized at the timethat Netflix may not have been giving up anything at all (beyond, perhaps, it’s normal partnership agreement with Comcast), and the fact the company so clearly stated it’s not interested in bundling with other streamers certainly suggests that is the case. Third, I made the casein Maythat the way to think about Netflix’s deal with the NFL is in terms of customer acquisition; another way to frame it — as co-CEO Ted Sarandos did — is as event programming, not inventory programming: Well, hopefully, exactly the way we’re doing it, by making these Netflix events, not necessarily taking on a lot of tonnage from any one league, by actually making these games events like having two NFL football games on Christmas Day and two great games, the Chiefs and the Steelers and the Ravens and the Texans. They’re both going to be great games, and it really creates a lot of real excitement with the service, and it’s one day of football. So when I look at that and I think along those lines, you can see how we solved for that in our WWE deal, which was economics that we like and live with and can grow into and contemplate with that expansion of cost and viewing would be over the — over, in that case, as long as 20 years if we want it to be. So I think it’s really not a matter of there’s an automatic disconnect between you can’t do sports and net profit. It’s very difficult to have big league sports and profit when you offer them entire seasons. But when you offer them in this event model that we’re building on, we’re really excited about our opportunity to do that without the risk that you’re talking about right now. And then beyond that, we are in love with the kind of very profitable storytelling version of sports. So if you can’t wait for those football games on Christmas Day, you can watch Receiver right now. It just started on July 10 on Netflix, which is part of that storytelling version of sports. In short, if Netflix thinks it can grow a sport beyond its costs, like the WWE (“sport”), they will consider a full rights deal; for sports like the NFL, though, that have long since maximized their rights fees, they are only interested in event programming to drive customer acquisition and, as a secondary benefit, drive interest (and probably access) for much cheaper shoulder programming. Breaking with its recent trend, sequential ARPU growth in UCAN — Netflix’s largest subscriber segment — decreased in Q2 by 0.75%. I’ve arguedpersistentlysincebeforeNetflix’s advertising-supported tier was launched that it would be ARPU-dilutive; this appeared to be the case immediately after the introduction of the ad-supported tier, with subsequent ARPU increases taking place after the password sharing crackdown was put into effect and prices were raised. It seems that the impact from those policies has waned, with ARPU declining (albeit to a level that remains elevated from the pre-advertising baseline). For the first time since the tier was introduced, Netflix’s co-CEO [Greg Peters] stated this explicitly in its earnings call (emphasis mine; note that ARM here means Average Revenue per Member and is functionally equivalent to ARPU): And then on terms of ads arm, so ads arm, which is, of course, the combination of the subscription amount plus the ads revenue, currently because we’ve been scaling so rapidly, we are not — we’re racing behind essentially to fulfill all of that increasing inventory and we’re lagging in that regard. Socurrently, our ads arm is lower than our non-ads arm. And that’s obviously — we look at that as both — it’s a go do but it’s a revenue growth opportunity for us as we scale into that, that represents an opportunity to accelerate our revenue growth as well. …That growth in the ad-tier’s adoption is slowing while it remains a minority of new subscriptions is a curious development. I argue inIs Netflix’s advertising business a success?that the goal of introducing the ad-supported tier — monetizing consumers that couldn’t or wouldn’t pay for Netflix at other price points — likely isn’t being met currently, and that reducing the price point to $0 as a Free Ad-Supported Streaming Television (FAST) option is the most viable path for the tier’s success. Note that Netflix’s two slowest-growing regions — UCAN and EMEA — have the highest concentration of countries that feature the ad-supported tier. I argued last year inThe Unified Content Business Modelthat the natural end state for all content businesses was a combination of free-and-ad-supported and subscription-with-no-ads (ideally the content is the same on both, to maximize leverage); the key thing about “free” is that it maximizes volume on the ad-supported tier, which dramatically increases leverage on advertising businesses that are expensive to build. The challenge for Netflix is that they, unlike YouTube, started out as a pure subscription play, which means that the path from here to there must pass through the valley of potential cannibalization; that is why Peters was pretty skeptical about the idea during thataforementioned interview: I think the answer to your question about free/not free might be market-by-market but I do believe under the current model we’re in in the United States, for example, I think we can get to 80%, 85% penetration in the model we’re in, and then when you think about the ultimate goal is long-term revenue optimization, going to free probably isn’t the best way to get there. Now, that may not be the case in every country around the world and there’s countries that have very strong free-to-air and/or ad-based entertainment models and it may be that in a Japan or Germany, something along those lines might get you there. But I’d say it’s a complex model to think about the trade-offs between cannibalization on subscription and how do you make all that math work? But that’s the kind of stuff that we do every day and we’ll keep doing. To that end, it was notable on the earnings call that Peters indicated Netflix could actuallyraiseprices on its ad-tier (I’ve excerpted the specific question and answer from a multi-part question and answer): So you mentioned price. We think about pricing for ads tier very similarly to how we would think about pricing for our non-ads tier. First of all, I just think it’s worth noting that we love having an entry price that’s lower. That means we are more accessible for more people in our ads market. That’s a great thing because they get access to all the amazing storytelling that we are doing there. But in terms of raising that price, we think about it similar to how we think about pricing in general, which is where it’s our job to increase the value that we are delivering all of our members. We’ve got more amazing film, more series, the live events that are coming, more games. And when we have signals from our members, this is the amount of acquisition that we’ve got going on, engagement, what our retention and churn looks like, then we find the right moment to ask our members to pay a bit more to keep that flywheel spinning. And we’ll think about that in the ads context just like we would in the non-ads context. This answer clearly runs in the opposite direction of where Seufert and I have our heads at; any potential price raise for the ads tier woulddecreasevolume, which isn’t good for the advertising business. On the other hand, raising prices may be the best choice for revenue optimization, as Peters noted. I do think this changes how we should think about Netflix’s ad business. First, to answer Seufert’s question, to the extent Netflix views itself as a subscription business, I think you can make the case that Netflix’s ads business is already a success, precisely because it is driving new subscribers. In other words, the goal appears to have been to offer a lower price, both for marginal subscribers and also previous password-sharers, while giving Netflix greater scope to raise prices on its non-ad plans (all of which I noted inWhy Netflix Should Sell Ads), as opposed to building a material revenue driver. Indeed, CFO Spencer Neumann cited the “attractive entry point in terms of price point and feature set for our ads plan” as one of the factors driving subscriber growth. Second, this could explain why Netflix capitulated (to useSeufert’s term) and announced it would start using third-party ad networks; yes, the company is investing in its own ad server, and could always cut off third-party ads in the future, but this specific decision sets the expectation that advertising revenue is something that is nice to add to the core subscription business, as opposed to the long-term future of the business (which may have driven a longer-term approach in terms of foregoing commoditized revenue now). Amazon.com has thrown a wrench into Netflix’s advertising plans. Netflix is charging less for ads and embracing new offerings such as product placement, according to ad buyers, as the streaming company looks to keep expanding an ad business that faces growing competition. The streaming ad market was upended earlier this year when Amazon converted its entire Prime Video subscriber base to a new ad-supported version, giving customers a chance to switch back to ad-free streaming for an extra $2.99 a month. Prime Video’s large ad-supported subscriber base means it has a significant amount of ad inventory that is affecting the negotiations that Netflix, YouTube, TV networks and other streamers are having with advertisers as they commit to buying billions of dollars in commercial time for the coming TV season—a process known as the “upfronts.” “The Unified Content Business Model” may have ultimately been too simplistic. Specifically, while it’s correct that any at-scale content business does need to have both ad-supported and subscription-based options, it may be the case that the real decision for executives is which one is the primary model. For YouTube, and now Prime Video, the primary model is advertising, which means the top priority in terms of decision-making and investment is about driving scale; if some customers would prefer to have no ads they can pay for that, but it’s not the default. The other approach is where Netflix seems to be settling, which is viewing ads primarily as a way to expand the addressable market for their subscription business (and likely eschewing free). The key point in drawing this distinction is that the latter need to accept they won’t ever be truly competitive with the former when it comes to advertising; they will never have enough subscribers to have a truly competitive offering, and thus probably shouldn’t spend too much on building expensive infrastructure that only pays off at massive scale. Their ad space is, in the end, a commodity, because their primary goal — you only get one primary, by definition — isn’t to build an ad business. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025