# [PODCAST] Meta Changes Moderation Policies, Zuckerberg's Journey — and Mine, The Audacity of Copying Well

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/meta-changes-moderation-policies-zuckerbergs-journey-and-mine-the-audacity-of-copying-well/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.GcL4FAc4wKT7gqOVAm_JrZ2r-j43684axnZJXcQVgi4JBgtYy8pz50VWFdGB7_LWEeO_qDGWfwIcgRkqY0zEv9JmoDhvrbrakXfTVTsHiyA4lcXzurum7X2afIvYO1w-h3gVY082YIvzoukHykCKHe1SA3-tdegrDUBP6WR261sfgkBi1H7cZVZrLQElsxt4IkMt2LXzNhXBIZNqjCaKPapsOoxer61gCAyGPTu30HltOrGibgzPS7NBWVbQ0HzOPfw0CpmlUdiS36cmBf3jhxmkP5FkfMMvopI0JFgxOaPq61rlN_j6p0uH1jmffPbnrPKlnIakc5pnhRyFuyWaHQ
**Atlas ID**: 229645
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.920903

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMeta Changes Moderation Policies, Zuckerberg’s Journey — and Mine, The Audacity of Copying WellWednesday, January 8, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthe latest episode of Greatest of All Talk, Ben and Andrew break down a potential Finals preview between the Celtics and Thunder, and look forward to another between the Thunder and the Cavs.On to the Update:Meta Changes Moderation PoliciesMeta CEO Mark Zuckerberg posted a video onInstagram:A Twitter user posted a transcripthere, but I think this is a video worth watching in full. Zuckerberg also posted his own summary of the main points onThreads:It’s time to get back to our roots around free expression and giving people voice on our platforms. Here’s what we’re going to do:1/ Replace fact-checkers with Community Notes, starting in the US.2/ Simplify our content policies and remove restrictions on topics like immigration and gender that are out of touch with mainstream discourse.3/ Change how we enforce our policies to remove the vast majority of censorship mistakes by focusing our filters on tackling illegal and high-severity violations and requiring higher confidence for our filters to take action.4/ Bring back civic content. We’re getting feedback that people want to see this content again, so we’ll phase it back into Facebook, Instagram and Threads while working to keep the communities friendly and positive.5/ Move our trust and safety and content moderation teams out of California, and our US content review to Texas. This will help remove the concern that biased employees are overly censoring content.6/ Work with President Trump to push back against foreign governments going after American companies to censor more. The US has the strongest constitutional protections for free expression in the world and the best way to defend against the trend of government overreach on censorship is with the support of the US government.It’ll take time to get this all right and these are complex systems so they’ll never be perfect. But this is an important step forward and I’m looking forward to this next chapter!Again, though, I think it’s worthwatching the Instagram videofor a lot more additional color. For example, Zuckerberg said in his introduction:I gave a speech at Georgetown 5 years ago about the importance of protecting free expression, and I still believe this today. But a lot has happened over the last several years. There’s been widespread debate about potential harms from online content, governments and legacy media have pushed to censor more and more. A lot of this is clearly political, but there’s also a lot of legitimately bad stuff out there. Drugs, terrorism, child exploitation. These are things that we take very seriously and I wanna make sure that we handle responsibly. So we built a lot of complex systems to moderate content, but the problem with complex systems is they make mistakes.Even if they accidentally censor just 1% of posts, that’s millions of people. And we’ve reached a point where it’s just too many mistakes and too much censorship. The recent elections also feel like a cultural tipping point towards once again prioritizing speech. So we’re gonna get back to our roots and focus on reducing mistakes, simplifying our policies, and restoring free expression on our platforms.As a part of point 1:After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US.As a part of point 6:Europe has an ever increasing number of laws institutionalizing censorship and making it difficult to build anything innovative there. Latin American countries have secret courts that can order companies to quietly take things down. China has censored our apps from even working in the country. The only way that we can push back on this global trend is with the support of the US government. And that’s why it’s been so difficult over the past 4 years when even the US government has pushed for censorship. By going after us and other American companies, it has emboldened other governments to go even further.In short, by “additional color” I mean “a lot more politically pointed”, and I think that’s an important detail.Zuckerberg’s Journey — and MineThe media narrative around Zuckerberg’s decision is that this is all about currying favor with the incoming Trump administration;this Bloomberg articlewas representative:It was no accident that Meta Platforms Inc. chose Donald Trump’s favorite TV news show, Fox and Friends, to discuss its decision to ditch outside fact-checking. The move, which will impact content served to hundreds of millions of US users on platforms like Instagram and Facebook, was in effect aimed at an audience of one. It was the latest calculation in a monthslong effort by founder and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to reposition the social media giant as a more Trump-friendly organization after years of conflict and tension…It’s a stark reversal from previous policies, which have included banning Trump from Facebook after the Jan. 6, 2021 US Capitol riot. On the campaign trail last year, Trump called Facebook the “Enemy of the People” and threatened to imprison Zuckerberg for alleged election interference. Since then, Zuckerberg has sought to forge a relationship with the president-elect and his top allies, praising Trump publicly, donating $1 million to his inaugural fund and appointing a key supporter to Meta’s board.The latest step may have the most far-reaching impact on his own internet empire: eliminating the quality controls and fact-checking systems that Trump always hated, doing so only within the US for now.I’m not as confident in my view of the matter as this reporter, but I suspect the situation is a bit more nuanced than it is being presented, just because Zuckerberg’s odyssey in terms of a commitment to free expression has been more nuanced than the popular narrative — particularly on the right — has been.The story, as with so many things with this charged topic, starts with Trump’s 2016 election. Zuckerberg initially said it was “a pretty crazy idea” that fake news on Facebook influenced the election,which I agreed with(and still do). Zuckerberg and the company quickly pivoted under withering external criticism and internal pushback, however, and committed billions of dollars to “fighting misinformation.” This included everything from algorithmically-driven content moderation to up to 40,000 employees and contractors, at the cost of billions of dollars a year.Even so, in 2019 Zuckerberggave a speech at GeorgetownaboutStanding for Voice and Free Expression, where he argued that the impulse to censor was ultimately self-defeating:In the face of these tensions, once again a popular impulse is to pull back from free expression. We’re at another cross-roads. We can continue to stand for free expression, understanding its messiness, but believing that the long journey towards greater progress requires confronting ideas that challenge us. Or we can decide the cost is simply too great. I’m here today because I believe we must continue to stand for free expression.I wrote about the speech — and echoed many of Zuckerberg’s sentiments — inThe Internet and the Third Estate. Then, a year later — in an episode that seems to have completely disappeared from collective memory — Facebook was actually boycotted by a significant number of companies for refusing to de-platform then-President Trump; I again wrotean Update in support.Then came January 6th, and this time it was Facebook that led the way in de-platforming President Trump,with my urging(even thoughI thought the long-term consequences would be very damaging).I wrote a bit ofan introspective tweet last nightwhere I expressed pride inmy consistent support for free speech, but that post is the one big exception. WhileI think there was validity to my argument— in America companies can do what they want, and sometimes institutions have a duty to act — I have long regretted my position.That regret, though, isn’t because of the results of the most recent election; rather, I was appalled by how severe the censorship — strong suggestions, backed by the implicit threat of regulatory action (or inaction), if you want to be precise — became under the new administration. Some of the most blatant examples involved COVID, but the impact was widespread; it soon became apparent to me that the slope was indeed slippery, and it was a mistake to abandon my previously principled position and take a step off the edge. I wrote ina 2022 Update about Joe Rogan and Spotify:Ek is right — the slope is slippery — and the fact of the matter is that we are, at least in terms of the elite culture dominated by U.S. media, at the bottom of the hill. Yes, the First Amendment still exists as a law, but it is hard to argue free expression still exists as a value. In other words, while it used to be the case that simply declaring that you were in favor of free speech was enough to tamp down most controversies, particularly in terms of comedians or edgy personalities, today one is quickly mired in the exact sort of muck I noted above, trying to defend broad principles while distancing oneself from specific examples. It’s an impossible dance, and — not to defend any specific instances of speech (here I dance) — I’m not sure we have yet fully internalized the long-term costs of no longer accepting free speech as a blanket principle citable by everyone from cranks to CEOs.This paragraph inspired the second most intense blowback I’ve ever received, and resulted in lots of canceled subscriptions (myopposition to the application of Title II to the Internet— i.e. net neutrality — rose to the death threat level, if you’re curious about number one), even though the following years — and, I would argue, the reaction to yesterday’s news — showed I was right.Fast forward to last summer, andI wrote an Updateabout the Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz Trump endorsement, and included a section called “Breaking the Deal”:This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story…The fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege…What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.I got a lot of feedback after that Update from people in tech thanking me for expressing how they felt; in truth, it was easy to write, because I felt the same way. More specifically to this story, I suspect that Zuckerberg felt the same way. Is there an aspect of this decision that is influenced by the fact Trump is president? Of course there is — it would be absurd to suggest otherwise. I think, though, that this is also closer to Zuckerberg’s core preferences and, more importantly, I think it’s the right thing to do.The Audacity of Copying WellI did appreciate — and wasn’t surprised — that Zuckerberg was matter-of-fact about the fact the company was copying X’s Community Note functionality:We’re gonna get rid of fact checkers and replace them with community notes similar to X starting in the US. After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US. So over the next couple of months, we’re gonna phase in a more comprehensive community note system.This is very much Zuckerberg and Meta’s modus operandi, as I explained inThe Audacity of Copying Well; if there is a system that works, why try and re-invent the wheel — or pretend that you’renotcopying?Still, it’s worth pointing out that Community Notes will be more challenging on Facebook in particular. X is like Instagram, in that posts are public by default; this means that anyone can report any post, and anyone doing the fact-checking can see the post in the question. On Facebook, though, posts are gated by various privacy controls. Facebook is already under an FTC Consent Decree for trying to change the privacy settings for already-made posts; given that, where is the community that will do the checking going to come from?Then again, by the same token, Meta had a way for its previous set of “fact checkers” to see posts, presumably with the identity of the poster removed. Perhaps a similar mechanic will suffice in this case. Regardless, I think Community Notes has been a big success on X; Internet problems require solutions that leverage Internet scale, and, to Zuckerberg’s point, Internet diversity of viewpoints.I should also reiterate, while I’m here, how impactful Elon Musk’s Twitter acquisition has been. I wrote after the electionin an Update:What is fascinating is how this fundamentally transforms any attempt to evaluate the Twitter acquisition. From a business perspective it’s a massive failure, and might always be: Musk paid too much for Twitter as it was, and in the intervening years the flight of advertisers from the platform has made it worth even less. From a Musk Inc. perspective, however, X played a pivotal role in ensuring that the incoming administration will do whatever Musk needs at the exact moment that SpaceX is gaining the capabilities to actually make a trip to Mars, if only the FAA in particular will give him the freedom to do so. That alone is almost certainly worth $44 billion to Musk!There’s one more piece to this: Musk re-established free speech as the core principle for one social network, and for all the credit I might want to give Zuckerberg — and by extension, myself — for nuance, it does seem doubtful that this shift happens without Musk. This is, of course, independent of agreeing with Musk or Zuckerberg or Rogan or Trump or anyone else; the entire point is that we ought to have the right to disagree freely. My hope is that we all return to that default position, even as we disagree about everything else.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.02: New Year, New MetaDateFriday, January 10, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 20242025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025←Nvidia at CES, Cosmos and Omniverse, DigitsAn Interview with Anduril Co-Founder and CEO Brian Schimpf About Paradigm Shifts→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Meta Changes Moderation Policies, Zuckerberg’s Journey — and Mine, The Audacity of Copying WellWednesday, January 8, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthe latest episode of Greatest of All Talk, Ben and Andrew break down a potential Finals preview between the Celtics and Thunder, and look forward to another between the Thunder and the Cavs.On to the Update:Meta Changes Moderation PoliciesMeta CEO Mark Zuckerberg posted a video onInstagram:A Twitter user posted a transcripthere, but I think this is a video worth watching in full. Zuckerberg also posted his own summary of the main points onThreads:It’s time to get back to our roots around free expression and giving people voice on our platforms. Here’s what we’re going to do:1/ Replace fact-checkers with Community Notes, starting in the US.2/ Simplify our content policies and remove restrictions on topics like immigration and gender that are out of touch with mainstream discourse.3/ Change how we enforce our policies to remove the vast majority of censorship mistakes by focusing our filters on tackling illegal and high-severity violations and requiring higher confidence for our filters to take action.4/ Bring back civic content. We’re getting feedback that people want to see this content again, so we’ll phase it back into Facebook, Instagram and Threads while working to keep the communities friendly and positive.5/ Move our trust and safety and content moderation teams out of California, and our US content review to Texas. This will help remove the concern that biased employees are overly censoring content.6/ Work with President Trump to push back against foreign governments going after American companies to censor more. The US has the strongest constitutional protections for free expression in the world and the best way to defend against the trend of government overreach on censorship is with the support of the US government.It’ll take time to get this all right and these are complex systems so they’ll never be perfect. But this is an important step forward and I’m looking forward to this next chapter!Again, though, I think it’s worthwatching the Instagram videofor a lot more additional color. For example, Zuckerberg said in his introduction:I gave a speech at Georgetown 5 years ago about the importance of protecting free expression, and I still believe this today. But a lot has happened over the last several years. There’s been widespread debate about potential harms from online content, governments and legacy media have pushed to censor more and more. A lot of this is clearly political, but there’s also a lot of legitimately bad stuff out there. Drugs, terrorism, child exploitation. These are things that we take very seriously and I wanna make sure that we handle responsibly. So we built a lot of complex systems to moderate content, but the problem with complex systems is they make mistakes.Even if they accidentally censor just 1% of posts, that’s millions of people. And we’ve reached a point where it’s just too many mistakes and too much censorship. The recent elections also feel like a cultural tipping point towards once again prioritizing speech. So we’re gonna get back to our roots and focus on reducing mistakes, simplifying our policies, and restoring free expression on our platforms.As a part of point 1:After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US.As a part of point 6:Europe has an ever increasing number of laws institutionalizing censorship and making it difficult to build anything innovative there. Latin American countries have secret courts that can order companies to quietly take things down. China has censored our apps from even working in the country. The only way that we can push back on this global trend is with the support of the US government. And that’s why it’s been so difficult over the past 4 years when even the US government has pushed for censorship. By going after us and other American companies, it has emboldened other governments to go even further.In short, by “additional color” I mean “a lot more politically pointed”, and I think that’s an important detail.Zuckerberg’s Journey — and MineThe media narrative around Zuckerberg’s decision is that this is all about currying favor with the incoming Trump administration;this Bloomberg articlewas representative:It was no accident that Meta Platforms Inc. chose Donald Trump’s favorite TV news show, Fox and Friends, to discuss its decision to ditch outside fact-checking. The move, which will impact content served to hundreds of millions of US users on platforms like Instagram and Facebook, was in effect aimed at an audience of one. It was the latest calculation in a monthslong effort by founder and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to reposition the social media giant as a more Trump-friendly organization after years of conflict and tension…It’s a stark reversal from previous policies, which have included banning Trump from Facebook after the Jan. 6, 2021 US Capitol riot. On the campaign trail last year, Trump called Facebook the “Enemy of the People” and threatened to imprison Zuckerberg for alleged election interference. Since then, Zuckerberg has sought to forge a relationship with the president-elect and his top allies, praising Trump publicly, donating $1 million to his inaugural fund and appointing a key supporter to Meta’s board.The latest step may have the most far-reaching impact on his own internet empire: eliminating the quality controls and fact-checking systems that Trump always hated, doing so only within the US for now.I’m not as confident in my view of the matter as this reporter, but I suspect the situation is a bit more nuanced than it is being presented, just because Zuckerberg’s odyssey in terms of a commitment to free expression has been more nuanced than the popular narrative — particularly on the right — has been.The story, as with so many things with this charged topic, starts with Trump’s 2016 election. Zuckerberg initially said it was “a pretty crazy idea” that fake news on Facebook influenced the election,which I agreed with(and still do). Zuckerberg and the company quickly pivoted under withering external criticism and internal pushback, however, and committed billions of dollars to “fighting misinformation.” This included everything from algorithmically-driven content moderation to up to 40,000 employees and contractors, at the cost of billions of dollars a year.Even so, in 2019 Zuckerberggave a speech at GeorgetownaboutStanding for Voice and Free Expression, where he argued that the impulse to censor was ultimately self-defeating:In the face of these tensions, once again a popular impulse is to pull back from free expression. We’re at another cross-roads. We can continue to stand for free expression, understanding its messiness, but believing that the long journey towards greater progress requires confronting ideas that challenge us. Or we can decide the cost is simply too great. I’m here today because I believe we must continue to stand for free expression.I wrote about the speech — and echoed many of Zuckerberg’s sentiments — inThe Internet and the Third Estate. Then, a year later — in an episode that seems to have completely disappeared from collective memory — Facebook was actually boycotted by a significant number of companies for refusing to de-platform then-President Trump; I again wrotean Update in support.Then came January 6th, and this time it was Facebook that led the way in de-platforming President Trump,with my urging(even thoughI thought the long-term consequences would be very damaging).I wrote a bit ofan introspective tweet last nightwhere I expressed pride inmy consistent support for free speech, but that post is the one big exception. WhileI think there was validity to my argument— in America companies can do what they want, and sometimes institutions have a duty to act — I have long regretted my position.That regret, though, isn’t because of the results of the most recent election; rather, I was appalled by how severe the censorship — strong suggestions, backed by the implicit threat of regulatory action (or inaction), if you want to be precise — became under the new administration. Some of the most blatant examples involved COVID, but the impact was widespread; it soon became apparent to me that the slope was indeed slippery, and it was a mistake to abandon my previously principled position and take a step off the edge. I wrote ina 2022 Update about Joe Rogan and Spotify:Ek is right — the slope is slippery — and the fact of the matter is that we are, at least in terms of the elite culture dominated by U.S. media, at the bottom of the hill. Yes, the First Amendment still exists as a law, but it is hard to argue free expression still exists as a value. In other words, while it used to be the case that simply declaring that you were in favor of free speech was enough to tamp down most controversies, particularly in terms of comedians or edgy personalities, today one is quickly mired in the exact sort of muck I noted above, trying to defend broad principles while distancing oneself from specific examples. It’s an impossible dance, and — not to defend any specific instances of speech (here I dance) — I’m not sure we have yet fully internalized the long-term costs of no longer accepting free speech as a blanket principle citable by everyone from cranks to CEOs.This paragraph inspired the second most intense blowback I’ve ever received, and resulted in lots of canceled subscriptions (myopposition to the application of Title II to the Internet— i.e. net neutrality — rose to the death threat level, if you’re curious about number one), even though the following years — and, I would argue, the reaction to yesterday’s news — showed I was right.Fast forward to last summer, andI wrote an Updateabout the Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz Trump endorsement, and included a section called “Breaking the Deal”:This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story…The fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege…What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.I got a lot of feedback after that Update from people in tech thanking me for expressing how they felt; in truth, it was easy to write, because I felt the same way. More specifically to this story, I suspect that Zuckerberg felt the same way. Is there an aspect of this decision that is influenced by the fact Trump is president? Of course there is — it would be absurd to suggest otherwise. I think, though, that this is also closer to Zuckerberg’s core preferences and, more importantly, I think it’s the right thing to do.The Audacity of Copying WellI did appreciate — and wasn’t surprised — that Zuckerberg was matter-of-fact about the fact the company was copying X’s Community Note functionality:We’re gonna get rid of fact checkers and replace them with community notes similar to X starting in the US. After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US. So over the next couple of months, we’re gonna phase in a more comprehensive community note system.This is very much Zuckerberg and Meta’s modus operandi, as I explained inThe Audacity of Copying Well; if there is a system that works, why try and re-invent the wheel — or pretend that you’renotcopying?Still, it’s worth pointing out that Community Notes will be more challenging on Facebook in particular. X is like Instagram, in that posts are public by default; this means that anyone can report any post, and anyone doing the fact-checking can see the post in the question. On Facebook, though, posts are gated by various privacy controls. Facebook is already under an FTC Consent Decree for trying to change the privacy settings for already-made posts; given that, where is the community that will do the checking going to come from?Then again, by the same token, Meta had a way for its previous set of “fact checkers” to see posts, presumably with the identity of the poster removed. Perhaps a similar mechanic will suffice in this case. Regardless, I think Community Notes has been a big success on X; Internet problems require solutions that leverage Internet scale, and, to Zuckerberg’s point, Internet diversity of viewpoints.I should also reiterate, while I’m here, how impactful Elon Musk’s Twitter acquisition has been. I wrote after the electionin an Update:What is fascinating is how this fundamentally transforms any attempt to evaluate the Twitter acquisition. From a business perspective it’s a massive failure, and might always be: Musk paid too much for Twitter as it was, and in the intervening years the flight of advertisers from the platform has made it worth even less. From a Musk Inc. perspective, however, X played a pivotal role in ensuring that the incoming administration will do whatever Musk needs at the exact moment that SpaceX is gaining the capabilities to actually make a trip to Mars, if only the FAA in particular will give him the freedom to do so. That alone is almost certainly worth $44 billion to Musk!There’s one more piece to this: Musk re-established free speech as the core principle for one social network, and for all the credit I might want to give Zuckerberg — and by extension, myself — for nuance, it does seem doubtful that this shift happens without Musk. This is, of course, independent of agreeing with Musk or Zuckerberg or Rogan or Trump or anyone else; the entire point is that we ought to have the right to disagree freely. My hope is that we all return to that default position, even as we disagree about everything else.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.02: New Year, New MetaDateFriday, January 10, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 20242025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025←Nvidia at CES, Cosmos and Omniverse, DigitsAn Interview with Anduril Co-Founder and CEO Brian Schimpf About Paradigm Shifts→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Meta Changes Moderation Policies, Zuckerberg’s Journey — and Mine, The Audacity of Copying WellWednesday, January 8, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthe latest episode of Greatest of All Talk, Ben and Andrew break down a potential Finals preview between the Celtics and Thunder, and look forward to another between the Thunder and the Cavs.On to the Update:Meta Changes Moderation PoliciesMeta CEO Mark Zuckerberg posted a video onInstagram:A Twitter user posted a transcripthere, but I think this is a video worth watching in full. Zuckerberg also posted his own summary of the main points onThreads:It’s time to get back to our roots around free expression and giving people voice on our platforms. Here’s what we’re going to do:1/ Replace fact-checkers with Community Notes, starting in the US.2/ Simplify our content policies and remove restrictions on topics like immigration and gender that are out of touch with mainstream discourse.3/ Change how we enforce our policies to remove the vast majority of censorship mistakes by focusing our filters on tackling illegal and high-severity violations and requiring higher confidence for our filters to take action.4/ Bring back civic content. We’re getting feedback that people want to see this content again, so we’ll phase it back into Facebook, Instagram and Threads while working to keep the communities friendly and positive.5/ Move our trust and safety and content moderation teams out of California, and our US content review to Texas. This will help remove the concern that biased employees are overly censoring content.6/ Work with President Trump to push back against foreign governments going after American companies to censor more. The US has the strongest constitutional protections for free expression in the world and the best way to defend against the trend of government overreach on censorship is with the support of the US government.It’ll take time to get this all right and these are complex systems so they’ll never be perfect. But this is an important step forward and I’m looking forward to this next chapter!Again, though, I think it’s worthwatching the Instagram videofor a lot more additional color. For example, Zuckerberg said in his introduction:I gave a speech at Georgetown 5 years ago about the importance of protecting free expression, and I still believe this today. But a lot has happened over the last several years. There’s been widespread debate about potential harms from online content, governments and legacy media have pushed to censor more and more. A lot of this is clearly political, but there’s also a lot of legitimately bad stuff out there. Drugs, terrorism, child exploitation. These are things that we take very seriously and I wanna make sure that we handle responsibly. So we built a lot of complex systems to moderate content, but the problem with complex systems is they make mistakes.Even if they accidentally censor just 1% of posts, that’s millions of people. And we’ve reached a point where it’s just too many mistakes and too much censorship. The recent elections also feel like a cultural tipping point towards once again prioritizing speech. So we’re gonna get back to our roots and focus on reducing mistakes, simplifying our policies, and restoring free expression on our platforms.As a part of point 1:After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US.As a part of point 6:Europe has an ever increasing number of laws institutionalizing censorship and making it difficult to build anything innovative there. Latin American countries have secret courts that can order companies to quietly take things down. China has censored our apps from even working in the country. The only way that we can push back on this global trend is with the support of the US government. And that’s why it’s been so difficult over the past 4 years when even the US government has pushed for censorship. By going after us and other American companies, it has emboldened other governments to go even further.In short, by “additional color” I mean “a lot more politically pointed”, and I think that’s an important detail.Zuckerberg’s Journey — and MineThe media narrative around Zuckerberg’s decision is that this is all about currying favor with the incoming Trump administration;this Bloomberg articlewas representative:It was no accident that Meta Platforms Inc. chose Donald Trump’s favorite TV news show, Fox and Friends, to discuss its decision to ditch outside fact-checking. The move, which will impact content served to hundreds of millions of US users on platforms like Instagram and Facebook, was in effect aimed at an audience of one. It was the latest calculation in a monthslong effort by founder and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to reposition the social media giant as a more Trump-friendly organization after years of conflict and tension…It’s a stark reversal from previous policies, which have included banning Trump from Facebook after the Jan. 6, 2021 US Capitol riot. On the campaign trail last year, Trump called Facebook the “Enemy of the People” and threatened to imprison Zuckerberg for alleged election interference. Since then, Zuckerberg has sought to forge a relationship with the president-elect and his top allies, praising Trump publicly, donating $1 million to his inaugural fund and appointing a key supporter to Meta’s board.The latest step may have the most far-reaching impact on his own internet empire: eliminating the quality controls and fact-checking systems that Trump always hated, doing so only within the US for now.I’m not as confident in my view of the matter as this reporter, but I suspect the situation is a bit more nuanced than it is being presented, just because Zuckerberg’s odyssey in terms of a commitment to free expression has been more nuanced than the popular narrative — particularly on the right — has been.The story, as with so many things with this charged topic, starts with Trump’s 2016 election. Zuckerberg initially said it was “a pretty crazy idea” that fake news on Facebook influenced the election,which I agreed with(and still do). Zuckerberg and the company quickly pivoted under withering external criticism and internal pushback, however, and committed billions of dollars to “fighting misinformation.” This included everything from algorithmically-driven content moderation to up to 40,000 employees and contractors, at the cost of billions of dollars a year.Even so, in 2019 Zuckerberggave a speech at GeorgetownaboutStanding for Voice and Free Expression, where he argued that the impulse to censor was ultimately self-defeating:In the face of these tensions, once again a popular impulse is to pull back from free expression. We’re at another cross-roads. We can continue to stand for free expression, understanding its messiness, but believing that the long journey towards greater progress requires confronting ideas that challenge us. Or we can decide the cost is simply too great. I’m here today because I believe we must continue to stand for free expression.I wrote about the speech — and echoed many of Zuckerberg’s sentiments — inThe Internet and the Third Estate. Then, a year later — in an episode that seems to have completely disappeared from collective memory — Facebook was actually boycotted by a significant number of companies for refusing to de-platform then-President Trump; I again wrotean Update in support.Then came January 6th, and this time it was Facebook that led the way in de-platforming President Trump,with my urging(even thoughI thought the long-term consequences would be very damaging).I wrote a bit ofan introspective tweet last nightwhere I expressed pride inmy consistent support for free speech, but that post is the one big exception. WhileI think there was validity to my argument— in America companies can do what they want, and sometimes institutions have a duty to act — I have long regretted my position.That regret, though, isn’t because of the results of the most recent election; rather, I was appalled by how severe the censorship — strong suggestions, backed by the implicit threat of regulatory action (or inaction), if you want to be precise — became under the new administration. Some of the most blatant examples involved COVID, but the impact was widespread; it soon became apparent to me that the slope was indeed slippery, and it was a mistake to abandon my previously principled position and take a step off the edge. I wrote ina 2022 Update about Joe Rogan and Spotify:Ek is right — the slope is slippery — and the fact of the matter is that we are, at least in terms of the elite culture dominated by U.S. media, at the bottom of the hill. Yes, the First Amendment still exists as a law, but it is hard to argue free expression still exists as a value. In other words, while it used to be the case that simply declaring that you were in favor of free speech was enough to tamp down most controversies, particularly in terms of comedians or edgy personalities, today one is quickly mired in the exact sort of muck I noted above, trying to defend broad principles while distancing oneself from specific examples. It’s an impossible dance, and — not to defend any specific instances of speech (here I dance) — I’m not sure we have yet fully internalized the long-term costs of no longer accepting free speech as a blanket principle citable by everyone from cranks to CEOs.This paragraph inspired the second most intense blowback I’ve ever received, and resulted in lots of canceled subscriptions (myopposition to the application of Title II to the Internet— i.e. net neutrality — rose to the death threat level, if you’re curious about number one), even though the following years — and, I would argue, the reaction to yesterday’s news — showed I was right.Fast forward to last summer, andI wrote an Updateabout the Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz Trump endorsement, and included a section called “Breaking the Deal”:This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story…The fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege…What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.I got a lot of feedback after that Update from people in tech thanking me for expressing how they felt; in truth, it was easy to write, because I felt the same way. More specifically to this story, I suspect that Zuckerberg felt the same way. Is there an aspect of this decision that is influenced by the fact Trump is president? Of course there is — it would be absurd to suggest otherwise. I think, though, that this is also closer to Zuckerberg’s core preferences and, more importantly, I think it’s the right thing to do.The Audacity of Copying WellI did appreciate — and wasn’t surprised — that Zuckerberg was matter-of-fact about the fact the company was copying X’s Community Note functionality:We’re gonna get rid of fact checkers and replace them with community notes similar to X starting in the US. After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US. So over the next couple of months, we’re gonna phase in a more comprehensive community note system.This is very much Zuckerberg and Meta’s modus operandi, as I explained inThe Audacity of Copying Well; if there is a system that works, why try and re-invent the wheel — or pretend that you’renotcopying?Still, it’s worth pointing out that Community Notes will be more challenging on Facebook in particular. X is like Instagram, in that posts are public by default; this means that anyone can report any post, and anyone doing the fact-checking can see the post in the question. On Facebook, though, posts are gated by various privacy controls. Facebook is already under an FTC Consent Decree for trying to change the privacy settings for already-made posts; given that, where is the community that will do the checking going to come from?Then again, by the same token, Meta had a way for its previous set of “fact checkers” to see posts, presumably with the identity of the poster removed. Perhaps a similar mechanic will suffice in this case. Regardless, I think Community Notes has been a big success on X; Internet problems require solutions that leverage Internet scale, and, to Zuckerberg’s point, Internet diversity of viewpoints.I should also reiterate, while I’m here, how impactful Elon Musk’s Twitter acquisition has been. I wrote after the electionin an Update:What is fascinating is how this fundamentally transforms any attempt to evaluate the Twitter acquisition. From a business perspective it’s a massive failure, and might always be: Musk paid too much for Twitter as it was, and in the intervening years the flight of advertisers from the platform has made it worth even less. From a Musk Inc. perspective, however, X played a pivotal role in ensuring that the incoming administration will do whatever Musk needs at the exact moment that SpaceX is gaining the capabilities to actually make a trip to Mars, if only the FAA in particular will give him the freedom to do so. That alone is almost certainly worth $44 billion to Musk!There’s one more piece to this: Musk re-established free speech as the core principle for one social network, and for all the credit I might want to give Zuckerberg — and by extension, myself — for nuance, it does seem doubtful that this shift happens without Musk. This is, of course, independent of agreeing with Musk or Zuckerberg or Rogan or Trump or anyone else; the entire point is that we ought to have the right to disagree freely. My hope is that we all return to that default position, even as we disagree about everything else.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.02: New Year, New MetaDateFriday, January 10, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 20242025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025←Nvidia at CES, Cosmos and Omniverse, DigitsAn Interview with Anduril Co-Founder and CEO Brian Schimpf About Paradigm Shifts→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onthe latest episode of Greatest of All Talk, Ben and Andrew break down a potential Finals preview between the Celtics and Thunder, and look forward to another between the Thunder and the Cavs.On to the Update:Meta Changes Moderation PoliciesMeta CEO Mark Zuckerberg posted a video onInstagram:A Twitter user posted a transcripthere, but I think this is a video worth watching in full. Zuckerberg also posted his own summary of the main points onThreads:It’s time to get back to our roots around free expression and giving people voice on our platforms. Here’s what we’re going to do:1/ Replace fact-checkers with Community Notes, starting in the US.2/ Simplify our content policies and remove restrictions on topics like immigration and gender that are out of touch with mainstream discourse.3/ Change how we enforce our policies to remove the vast majority of censorship mistakes by focusing our filters on tackling illegal and high-severity violations and requiring higher confidence for our filters to take action.4/ Bring back civic content. We’re getting feedback that people want to see this content again, so we’ll phase it back into Facebook, Instagram and Threads while working to keep the communities friendly and positive.5/ Move our trust and safety and content moderation teams out of California, and our US content review to Texas. This will help remove the concern that biased employees are overly censoring content.6/ Work with President Trump to push back against foreign governments going after American companies to censor more. The US has the strongest constitutional protections for free expression in the world and the best way to defend against the trend of government overreach on censorship is with the support of the US government.It’ll take time to get this all right and these are complex systems so they’ll never be perfect. But this is an important step forward and I’m looking forward to this next chapter!Again, though, I think it’s worthwatching the Instagram videofor a lot more additional color. For example, Zuckerberg said in his introduction:I gave a speech at Georgetown 5 years ago about the importance of protecting free expression, and I still believe this today. But a lot has happened over the last several years. There’s been widespread debate about potential harms from online content, governments and legacy media have pushed to censor more and more. A lot of this is clearly political, but there’s also a lot of legitimately bad stuff out there. Drugs, terrorism, child exploitation. These are things that we take very seriously and I wanna make sure that we handle responsibly. So we built a lot of complex systems to moderate content, but the problem with complex systems is they make mistakes.Even if they accidentally censor just 1% of posts, that’s millions of people. And we’ve reached a point where it’s just too many mistakes and too much censorship. The recent elections also feel like a cultural tipping point towards once again prioritizing speech. So we’re gonna get back to our roots and focus on reducing mistakes, simplifying our policies, and restoring free expression on our platforms.As a part of point 1:After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US.As a part of point 6:Europe has an ever increasing number of laws institutionalizing censorship and making it difficult to build anything innovative there. Latin American countries have secret courts that can order companies to quietly take things down. China has censored our apps from even working in the country. The only way that we can push back on this global trend is with the support of the US government. And that’s why it’s been so difficult over the past 4 years when even the US government has pushed for censorship. By going after us and other American companies, it has emboldened other governments to go even further.In short, by “additional color” I mean “a lot more politically pointed”, and I think that’s an important detail.Zuckerberg’s Journey — and MineThe media narrative around Zuckerberg’s decision is that this is all about currying favor with the incoming Trump administration;this Bloomberg articlewas representative:It was no accident that Meta Platforms Inc. chose Donald Trump’s favorite TV news show, Fox and Friends, to discuss its decision to ditch outside fact-checking. The move, which will impact content served to hundreds of millions of US users on platforms like Instagram and Facebook, was in effect aimed at an audience of one. It was the latest calculation in a monthslong effort by founder and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to reposition the social media giant as a more Trump-friendly organization after years of conflict and tension…It’s a stark reversal from previous policies, which have included banning Trump from Facebook after the Jan. 6, 2021 US Capitol riot. On the campaign trail last year, Trump called Facebook the “Enemy of the People” and threatened to imprison Zuckerberg for alleged election interference. Since then, Zuckerberg has sought to forge a relationship with the president-elect and his top allies, praising Trump publicly, donating $1 million to his inaugural fund and appointing a key supporter to Meta’s board.The latest step may have the most far-reaching impact on his own internet empire: eliminating the quality controls and fact-checking systems that Trump always hated, doing so only within the US for now.I’m not as confident in my view of the matter as this reporter, but I suspect the situation is a bit more nuanced than it is being presented, just because Zuckerberg’s odyssey in terms of a commitment to free expression has been more nuanced than the popular narrative — particularly on the right — has been.The story, as with so many things with this charged topic, starts with Trump’s 2016 election. Zuckerberg initially said it was “a pretty crazy idea” that fake news on Facebook influenced the election,which I agreed with(and still do). Zuckerberg and the company quickly pivoted under withering external criticism and internal pushback, however, and committed billions of dollars to “fighting misinformation.” This included everything from algorithmically-driven content moderation to up to 40,000 employees and contractors, at the cost of billions of dollars a year.Even so, in 2019 Zuckerberggave a speech at GeorgetownaboutStanding for Voice and Free Expression, where he argued that the impulse to censor was ultimately self-defeating:In the face of these tensions, once again a popular impulse is to pull back from free expression. We’re at another cross-roads. We can continue to stand for free expression, understanding its messiness, but believing that the long journey towards greater progress requires confronting ideas that challenge us. Or we can decide the cost is simply too great. I’m here today because I believe we must continue to stand for free expression.I wrote about the speech — and echoed many of Zuckerberg’s sentiments — inThe Internet and the Third Estate. Then, a year later — in an episode that seems to have completely disappeared from collective memory — Facebook was actually boycotted by a significant number of companies for refusing to de-platform then-President Trump; I again wrotean Update in support.Then came January 6th, and this time it was Facebook that led the way in de-platforming President Trump,with my urging(even thoughI thought the long-term consequences would be very damaging).I wrote a bit ofan introspective tweet last nightwhere I expressed pride inmy consistent support for free speech, but that post is the one big exception. WhileI think there was validity to my argument— in America companies can do what they want, and sometimes institutions have a duty to act — I have long regretted my position.That regret, though, isn’t because of the results of the most recent election; rather, I was appalled by how severe the censorship — strong suggestions, backed by the implicit threat of regulatory action (or inaction), if you want to be precise — became under the new administration. Some of the most blatant examples involved COVID, but the impact was widespread; it soon became apparent to me that the slope was indeed slippery, and it was a mistake to abandon my previously principled position and take a step off the edge. I wrote ina 2022 Update about Joe Rogan and Spotify:Ek is right — the slope is slippery — and the fact of the matter is that we are, at least in terms of the elite culture dominated by U.S. media, at the bottom of the hill. Yes, the First Amendment still exists as a law, but it is hard to argue free expression still exists as a value. In other words, while it used to be the case that simply declaring that you were in favor of free speech was enough to tamp down most controversies, particularly in terms of comedians or edgy personalities, today one is quickly mired in the exact sort of muck I noted above, trying to defend broad principles while distancing oneself from specific examples. It’s an impossible dance, and — not to defend any specific instances of speech (here I dance) — I’m not sure we have yet fully internalized the long-term costs of no longer accepting free speech as a blanket principle citable by everyone from cranks to CEOs.This paragraph inspired the second most intense blowback I’ve ever received, and resulted in lots of canceled subscriptions (myopposition to the application of Title II to the Internet— i.e. net neutrality — rose to the death threat level, if you’re curious about number one), even though the following years — and, I would argue, the reaction to yesterday’s news — showed I was right.Fast forward to last summer, andI wrote an Updateabout the Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz Trump endorsement, and included a section called “Breaking the Deal”:This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story…The fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege…What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all.I got a lot of feedback after that Update from people in tech thanking me for expressing how they felt; in truth, it was easy to write, because I felt the same way. More specifically to this story, I suspect that Zuckerberg felt the same way. Is there an aspect of this decision that is influenced by the fact Trump is president? Of course there is — it would be absurd to suggest otherwise. I think, though, that this is also closer to Zuckerberg’s core preferences and, more importantly, I think it’s the right thing to do.The Audacity of Copying WellI did appreciate — and wasn’t surprised — that Zuckerberg was matter-of-fact about the fact the company was copying X’s Community Note functionality:We’re gonna get rid of fact checkers and replace them with community notes similar to X starting in the US. After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US. So over the next couple of months, we’re gonna phase in a more comprehensive community note system.This is very much Zuckerberg and Meta’s modus operandi, as I explained inThe Audacity of Copying Well; if there is a system that works, why try and re-invent the wheel — or pretend that you’renotcopying?Still, it’s worth pointing out that Community Notes will be more challenging on Facebook in particular. X is like Instagram, in that posts are public by default; this means that anyone can report any post, and anyone doing the fact-checking can see the post in the question. On Facebook, though, posts are gated by various privacy controls. Facebook is already under an FTC Consent Decree for trying to change the privacy settings for already-made posts; given that, where is the community that will do the checking going to come from?Then again, by the same token, Meta had a way for its previous set of “fact checkers” to see posts, presumably with the identity of the poster removed. Perhaps a similar mechanic will suffice in this case. Regardless, I think Community Notes has been a big success on X; Internet problems require solutions that leverage Internet scale, and, to Zuckerberg’s point, Internet diversity of viewpoints.I should also reiterate, while I’m here, how impactful Elon Musk’s Twitter acquisition has been. I wrote after the electionin an Update:What is fascinating is how this fundamentally transforms any attempt to evaluate the Twitter acquisition. From a business perspective it’s a massive failure, and might always be: Musk paid too much for Twitter as it was, and in the intervening years the flight of advertisers from the platform has made it worth even less. From a Musk Inc. perspective, however, X played a pivotal role in ensuring that the incoming administration will do whatever Musk needs at the exact moment that SpaceX is gaining the capabilities to actually make a trip to Mars, if only the FAA in particular will give him the freedom to do so. That alone is almost certainly worth $44 billion to Musk!There’s one more piece to this: Musk re-established free speech as the core principle for one social network, and for all the credit I might want to give Zuckerberg — and by extension, myself — for nuance, it does seem doubtful that this shift happens without Musk. This is, of course, independent of agreeing with Musk or Zuckerberg or Rogan or Trump or anyone else; the entire point is that we ought to have the right to disagree freely. My hope is that we all return to that default position, even as we disagree about everything else.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email 3/ Change how we enforce our policies to remove the vast majority of censorship mistakes by focusing our filters on tackling illegal and high-severity violations and requiring higher confidence for our filters to take action. 4/ Bring back civic content. We’re getting feedback that people want to see this content again, so we’ll phase it back into Facebook, Instagram and Threads while working to keep the communities friendly and positive. 6/ Work with President Trump to push back against foreign governments going after American companies to censor more. The US has the strongest constitutional protections for free expression in the world and the best way to defend against the trend of government overreach on censorship is with the support of the US government. I gave a speech at Georgetown 5 years ago about the importance of protecting free expression, and I still believe this today. But a lot has happened over the last several years. There’s been widespread debate about potential harms from online content, governments and legacy media have pushed to censor more and more. A lot of this is clearly political, but there’s also a lot of legitimately bad stuff out there. Drugs, terrorism, child exploitation. These are things that we take very seriously and I wanna make sure that we handle responsibly. So we built a lot of complex systems to moderate content, but the problem with complex systems is they make mistakes. Even if they accidentally censor just 1% of posts, that’s millions of people. And we’ve reached a point where it’s just too many mistakes and too much censorship. The recent elections also feel like a cultural tipping point towards once again prioritizing speech. So we’re gonna get back to our roots and focus on reducing mistakes, simplifying our policies, and restoring free expression on our platforms. After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US. Europe has an ever increasing number of laws institutionalizing censorship and making it difficult to build anything innovative there. Latin American countries have secret courts that can order companies to quietly take things down. China has censored our apps from even working in the country. The only way that we can push back on this global trend is with the support of the US government. And that’s why it’s been so difficult over the past 4 years when even the US government has pushed for censorship. By going after us and other American companies, it has emboldened other governments to go even further. It was no accident that Meta Platforms Inc. chose Donald Trump’s favorite TV news show, Fox and Friends, to discuss its decision to ditch outside fact-checking. The move, which will impact content served to hundreds of millions of US users on platforms like Instagram and Facebook, was in effect aimed at an audience of one. It was the latest calculation in a monthslong effort by founder and Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg to reposition the social media giant as a more Trump-friendly organization after years of conflict and tension… It’s a stark reversal from previous policies, which have included banning Trump from Facebook after the Jan. 6, 2021 US Capitol riot. On the campaign trail last year, Trump called Facebook the “Enemy of the People” and threatened to imprison Zuckerberg for alleged election interference. Since then, Zuckerberg has sought to forge a relationship with the president-elect and his top allies, praising Trump publicly, donating $1 million to his inaugural fund and appointing a key supporter to Meta’s board. The latest step may have the most far-reaching impact on his own internet empire: eliminating the quality controls and fact-checking systems that Trump always hated, doing so only within the US for now. I’m not as confident in my view of the matter as this reporter, but I suspect the situation is a bit more nuanced than it is being presented, just because Zuckerberg’s odyssey in terms of a commitment to free expression has been more nuanced than the popular narrative — particularly on the right — has been. The story, as with so many things with this charged topic, starts with Trump’s 2016 election. Zuckerberg initially said it was “a pretty crazy idea” that fake news on Facebook influenced the election,which I agreed with(and still do). Zuckerberg and the company quickly pivoted under withering external criticism and internal pushback, however, and committed billions of dollars to “fighting misinformation.” This included everything from algorithmically-driven content moderation to up to 40,000 employees and contractors, at the cost of billions of dollars a year. In the face of these tensions, once again a popular impulse is to pull back from free expression. We’re at another cross-roads. We can continue to stand for free expression, understanding its messiness, but believing that the long journey towards greater progress requires confronting ideas that challenge us. Or we can decide the cost is simply too great. I’m here today because I believe we must continue to stand for free expression. I wrote about the speech — and echoed many of Zuckerberg’s sentiments — inThe Internet and the Third Estate. Then, a year later — in an episode that seems to have completely disappeared from collective memory — Facebook was actually boycotted by a significant number of companies for refusing to de-platform then-President Trump; I again wrotean Update in support. I wrote a bit ofan introspective tweet last nightwhere I expressed pride inmy consistent support for free speech, but that post is the one big exception. WhileI think there was validity to my argument— in America companies can do what they want, and sometimes institutions have a duty to act — I have long regretted my position. That regret, though, isn’t because of the results of the most recent election; rather, I was appalled by how severe the censorship — strong suggestions, backed by the implicit threat of regulatory action (or inaction), if you want to be precise — became under the new administration. Some of the most blatant examples involved COVID, but the impact was widespread; it soon became apparent to me that the slope was indeed slippery, and it was a mistake to abandon my previously principled position and take a step off the edge. I wrote ina 2022 Update about Joe Rogan and Spotify: Ek is right — the slope is slippery — and the fact of the matter is that we are, at least in terms of the elite culture dominated by U.S. media, at the bottom of the hill. Yes, the First Amendment still exists as a law, but it is hard to argue free expression still exists as a value. In other words, while it used to be the case that simply declaring that you were in favor of free speech was enough to tamp down most controversies, particularly in terms of comedians or edgy personalities, today one is quickly mired in the exact sort of muck I noted above, trying to defend broad principles while distancing oneself from specific examples. It’s an impossible dance, and — not to defend any specific instances of speech (here I dance) — I’m not sure we have yet fully internalized the long-term costs of no longer accepting free speech as a blanket principle citable by everyone from cranks to CEOs. This paragraph inspired the second most intense blowback I’ve ever received, and resulted in lots of canceled subscriptions (myopposition to the application of Title II to the Internet— i.e. net neutrality — rose to the death threat level, if you’re curious about number one), even though the following years — and, I would argue, the reaction to yesterday’s news — showed I was right. This was a narrative that Zuckerberg and most of tech went along with (Zuckerberg would soon apologize for the comments above): over the next few years the company specifically and tech generally devoted massive amounts of resources towards building up huge moderation apparatuses and became dramatically more aggressive about censoring alleged misinformation; this effort reached its apotheosis during COVID and the 2020 election, including Facebook and Twitter censoring the Hunter Biden laptop story… The fundamental issue with blaming misinformation on Facebook for Trump is that it was, to use Zuckerberg’s words, “a pretty crazy idea”. That’s why all of the efforts over the last eight years to contain misinformation have totally failed; worse, they have actually made everyone mad at tech, not just Democrats. In short, you have an industry that has been endlessly vilified in the press, bent over backwards to do what the press demanded, but instead of receiving credit for those efforts, has only seen itself even more isolated and under siege… What Horowitz says about the pain of switching sides and losing friends is important: I have criticized tech companies for alienating their natural allies in Washington, but what I am driving at in this Update is the extent to which the Democrats generally and the media specifically have made a similar error; by making tech the scapegoat for Trump, “the deal” that united tech and Democrats was broken. The end result is not so much enmity as it is naked self interest. In other words, the surprise isn’t that Musk and Andreessen and Horowitz are supporting the politician that is better for their business ventures, but that Democrats gave up the enviable position of being the default choice for people who didn’t want to think about politics at all. I got a lot of feedback after that Update from people in tech thanking me for expressing how they felt; in truth, it was easy to write, because I felt the same way. More specifically to this story, I suspect that Zuckerberg felt the same way. Is there an aspect of this decision that is influenced by the fact Trump is president? Of course there is — it would be absurd to suggest otherwise. I think, though, that this is also closer to Zuckerberg’s core preferences and, more importantly, I think it’s the right thing to do. We’re gonna get rid of fact checkers and replace them with community notes similar to X starting in the US. After Trump first got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth, but the fact checkers have just been too politically biased and have destroyed more trust than they’ve created, especially in the US. So over the next couple of months, we’re gonna phase in a more comprehensive community note system. This is very much Zuckerberg and Meta’s modus operandi, as I explained inThe Audacity of Copying Well; if there is a system that works, why try and re-invent the wheel — or pretend that you’renotcopying? Still, it’s worth pointing out that Community Notes will be more challenging on Facebook in particular. X is like Instagram, in that posts are public by default; this means that anyone can report any post, and anyone doing the fact-checking can see the post in the question. On Facebook, though, posts are gated by various privacy controls. Facebook is already under an FTC Consent Decree for trying to change the privacy settings for already-made posts; given that, where is the community that will do the checking going to come from? Then again, by the same token, Meta had a way for its previous set of “fact checkers” to see posts, presumably with the identity of the poster removed. Perhaps a similar mechanic will suffice in this case. Regardless, I think Community Notes has been a big success on X; Internet problems require solutions that leverage Internet scale, and, to Zuckerberg’s point, Internet diversity of viewpoints. What is fascinating is how this fundamentally transforms any attempt to evaluate the Twitter acquisition. From a business perspective it’s a massive failure, and might always be: Musk paid too much for Twitter as it was, and in the intervening years the flight of advertisers from the platform has made it worth even less. From a Musk Inc. perspective, however, X played a pivotal role in ensuring that the incoming administration will do whatever Musk needs at the exact moment that SpaceX is gaining the capabilities to actually make a trip to Mars, if only the FAA in particular will give him the freedom to do so. That alone is almost certainly worth $44 billion to Musk! There’s one more piece to this: Musk re-established free speech as the core principle for one social network, and for all the credit I might want to give Zuckerberg — and by extension, myself — for nuance, it does seem doubtful that this shift happens without Musk. This is, of course, independent of agreeing with Musk or Zuckerberg or Rogan or Trump or anyone else; the entire point is that we ought to have the right to disagree freely. My hope is that we all return to that default position, even as we disagree about everything else. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025