# [PODCAST] Taking Waymo, Uber and Waymo

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/taking-waymo-uber-and-waymo/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L3Rha2luZy13YXltby11YmVyLWFuZC13YXltby8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTc2MTE2OTExNywiaWF0IjoxNzU4NTc3MTE3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwcC5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyBwb2RjYXN0IHJzcyIsInN1YiI6ImMwZWRkNGMyLWUyNzMtNDdiMS1hY2JlLTUwYWU5ZjEzODUxOCIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.DNkETFPbGOkOyzXwP4QRakLqdVaY-PoS5kGa5Jx75oSKrrFZQfQTZK3AOCIm1qFppjCQUXqEocVodu7XjRtopVuTeQdOP7wT842tdGOl6aydN8dL5TUQiNlDUch5oifEM3WtWa6PvdUyJ2Nexo2gEerFUTy-WuB1RKJieoBpnYsvwf0n5xaMIwhh1ACzXHGeYz54SVWxnVph_IM7QXR6UZud3hxKjMMtaOvhkGFiQCA7caF4VIWb2omGY44KMIxJZ1q0I5x8oJrrG5YlmEXTg-1NlloXtUz_DslLj4kttz_sWnsdUy3VomOdMf2Axugs_9SubAlahp58L-TfEH-amQ
**Atlas ID**: 229689
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.942348

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirTaking Waymo, Uber and WaymoTuesday, October 1, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On theMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Techwe followed up on Orion (including a discussion about why the Luxottica partnership is such a win), addressed the executive turnover at OpenAI, and discussed the current state of ESPN in the wake of recent high-profile layoffs.On to the Update:Taking WaymoOrion wasn’t the only exciting new technology I tried out last week; while Meta Connect was the proximate cause for me to be in the Bay Area, I made sure to take a trip up to San Francisco to take a few trips in Google’s self-driving cars. I found the experience extraordinary.The ride itself was, on any objective basis, pretty uneventful. Waymo picked me up, navigated San Francisco’s streets skillfully, and dropped me off. That in-and-of-itself is of course remarkable: a car without a human was just as good — actually, probably better — than one with one.What was really surprising to me, though, was how I felt about the entire thing. After Waymo greeted me by name, explained the process (which only happens on your first ride), and dropped me off with a cheery “Happy Friday”, I felt a twinge of — what is this?! — sadness as it drove away. I felt like I had just made a new friend, and now my friend was driving away after too short a time together.Look, I know this is objectively ridiculous. But the emotion was really quite powerful! It makes me think that as robots proliferate in daily life that humans are going to develop attachments; when a favorite robot breaks down or needs to be replaced people are going to be sad. I’m not totally sure why this is, but I suspect the verbal aspect of the interaction plays an important part. Communication is meaningful, and the capacity of devices to communicate in a natural way with humans is, well, humanizing.What was the most striking was how this experience made me think about Google: I felt a genuine surge of affection for the Internet giant. Google has obviously always been a major presence in everyone’s experience of the Internet, which is to increasingly say everyone’s experience of modern life. The nature of that experience, though, is that of a utility: I type something in my browser — which may not even be branded Google — and get results that help me do my job or look something up. Weirdly enough, though, it was a human-less car that, for me anyway, humanized Google. This faceless corporation was picking me up, talking to me, keeping me safe, and delivering me where I needed to go; I still have a bit of glow thinking back on it a few days later.Ireferred last weektoTech’s Two Philosophies, wherein Apple and Microsoft seek to help you get stuff done, while Google and Meta seek to do things for you; I wrote about Google specifically:In Google’s view, computers help you get things done — and save you time — by doing things for you. Duplex was the most impressive example — a computer talking on the phone for you — but the general concept applied to many of Google’s other demonstrations, particularly those predicated on AI: Google Photos will not only sort and tag your photos, but now propose specific edits; Google News will find your news for you, and Maps will find you new restaurants and shops in your neighborhood. And, appropriately enough, the keynote closed with a presentation from Waymo, which will drive you.It’s the real world nature of Waymo that sets it apart from those other examples. One oddity, though, is that while I was just waxing poetic about Google, nothing in the Waymo experience is actually branded Google; indeed, it’s technically not associated with Google at all, but rather Alphabet, Google’s parent company that no one ever refers to.There are good reasons for this; Waymo has cost a lot of money to develop, and it’s helpful to understand Google’s financials without the costs associated with self-driving cars, an unrelated business to advertising-monetized information services. That distinction will only grow when and if Google starts manufacturing Waymo’s at scale; that will be a lot of depreciable hard assets that have different return profiles than servers (although the vast increases in capital expenditures for AI are maybe making the businesses look more similar than you might have expected a decade ago). At the same time, the Waymo branding feels like a missed opportunity for Google to really burnish its brand. I can’t overstate how positively the experience made me feel about the company as a whole, even if that feeling was clearly more subjective and emotional than objective and intellectual.And, of course, the second ride was a lot less notable and emotional than the first. I tried to be disciplined about paying attention to the car, but I started to look at my phone for more of it; I would imagine by the third or fourth ride I would hardly give the lack of driver a second thought. Allen Pike described exactly thison his blog:The future is weird.Last summer, while I was in San Francisco, a friend asked how I was getting back to my hotel.“An Uber, I guess,” I shrugged.His eyes lit up. “Have you tried the self-driving cars yet?” A couple taps on his phone and a few minutes later, an algorithm was piloting us across the city.As I understand it, my first experience in a self-driving car was typical:Minute 1: “How safe is this? Will it notice that cyclist? What about those construction cones?”Minute 10: “This is wild. It’s driving so calmly and safely. I love it.”Minute 20: (Bored, checking my email in the back seat.)It was like a firmware update to my brain.This rapid adaptability is really remarkable, and will likely be a theme — mostly unnoticed, but pervasive — over the coming years as AI takes over more and more use cases; indeed, how many of you reading this are already more bored than you realized by large language models? The future arrived, and we called it Tuesday.Or, in the case of Waymo, it’s called San Francisco. There was a time a decade ago where being in San Francisco felt like living in the future, particularly with the advent of smartphone-mediated services like Uber and Airbnb, or rapid delivery; then, over the ensuing years, the future came to the rest of the world, and seemed a lot less special, even as the aggregate impact increased dramatically. That cycle feels like it is starting up again: San Francisco has Waymo, and it is the center of AI; the future is located in a dysfunctional city with crappy weather blessed with some of the most incredible natural beauty on earth. It’s kind of amazing to think that we’ll be bored when the innovations being trialed today are brought to the rest of the world.Uber and WaymoFrom theWaymo blogin mid-September:Today, Waymo and Uber are announcing an expanded partnership to bring the Waymo One experience to Austin and Atlanta, only on the Uber app, beginning in early 2025. In these cities, Uber will manage and dispatch a fleet of Waymo’s fully autonomous, all-electric Jaguar I-PACE vehicles, which will grow to hundreds of vehicles over time.“Waymo’s mission is to be the world’s most trusted driver, and we’re excited to launch this expanded network and operations partnership with Uber in Austin and Atlanta to bring the benefits of fully autonomous driving to more riders,” said Tekedra Mawakana, co-CEO, Waymo. “We’ve been delighted at the positive feedback from our Waymo One riders to date, and we can’t wait to bring the comfort, convenience, and safety of the Waymo Driver to these cities in partnership with Uber.”“We’re thrilled to build on our successful partnership with Waymo, which has already powered fully autonomous trips for tens of thousands of riders in Phoenix,” said Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of Uber. “Soon, riders in Austin and Atlanta will be able to experience that same mobility magic, through a new fleet of dedicated autonomous Waymo vehicles, available only on Uber.”Through this expanded partnership, Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations. Waymo will continue to be responsible for the testing and operation of the Waymo Driver, including roadside assistance and certain rider support functions.This shouldn’t be a surprise to Stratechery readers; I have been consistently opposed both to Uber building self-driving carsandto Google trying to build their own Uber-like service. I wrotein 2017:The reality would — may — be more complicated. I think Google would likely be better off licensing its technology in the long run; indeed, it seems blindingly obvious that Google and Uber should have been partners. In fact, there is a strong analogy to Apple and Google: it ought to have been Apple making iPhones and Google providing services, to the benefit of both. In that case Google wanted more, and the price it paid was dear: default access to the most attractive part of the market. One can certainly make the case that Google made the same mistake here: by wanting it all it lost the easiest path to a very lucrative market; a prize of punitive damages would be a very paltry one in comparison.The context for that post was Google’s lawsuit about Uber stealing their intellectual property for self-driving cars; the two companies settled a year later. Then, frommy Articleabout Uber’s S-1:One of the biggest existential questions surrounding Uber (and Lyft) is self-driving cars: what happens when drivers are no longer necessary? In fact, it was here that I thoughtUber’s S-1was strongest:Along the way to a potential future autonomous vehicle world, we believe that there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy, in which autonomous vehicles will be deployed gradually against specific use cases while Drivers continue to serve most consumer demand. As we solve specific autonomous use cases, we will deploy autonomous vehicles against them. Such situations may include trips along a standard, well-mapped route in a predictable environment in good weather. In other situations, such as those that involve substantial traffic, complex routes, or unusual weather conditions, we will continue to rely on Drivers. Moreover, high-demand events, such as concerts or sporting events, will likely exceed the capacity of a highly utilized, fully autonomous vehicle fleet and require the dynamic addition of Drivers to the network in real time. Our regional on-the-ground operations teams will be critical to maintaining reliable supply for such high-demand events.Deciding which trip receives a vehicle driven by a Driver and which receives an autonomous vehicle, and deploying both in real time while maintaining liquidity in all situations, is a dynamic that we believe is imperative for the success of an autonomous vehicle future. Accordingly, we believe that we will be uniquely suited for this dynamic during the expected long hybrid period of co-existence of Drivers and autonomous vehicles. Drivers are therefore a critical and differentiating advantage for us and will continue to be our valued partners for the long-term. We will continue to partner with original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and other technology companies to determine how to most effectively leverage our network during the transition to autonomous vehicle technologies.This fitsmy previous read on the situation: I think that the most likely go-to-market for autonomous cars is via the ride-sharing networks, not as a substitute, and that driver availability and liquidity will continue to be differentiating factors.The other factorI’ve noted in the pastis that Uber does have some degree of network effects andis an Aggregatorin that regard; one of the most important factors for (expensive) self-driving cars will be high utilization, and Uber is best positioned to deliver that, in addition to having the human driver component for surges in demand.There is one additional factor that is highlighted by this deal, specifically the fact that “Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations”. That’s low margin work that has a significant human component, which is to say it is work that is out-of-line with Google’s cost structure and management capabilities; Uber, on the other hand, is a significantly lower margin business with a huge on-the-ground human management component. I suspect these factors are underrated in predicting future market structure — I should have noted them before now! — but they are significant.More generally, the longer that Waymo stays an Alphabet subsidiary the greater the likelihood is that Uber wins as a transportation Aggregator; if Google wants to actually own the market then I think they would need to spin Waymo out into a standalone entity that is committed to getting its hands dirty and it’s ROIC ratios lower. What is more likely to happen under the current structure is that Uber owns the customer, OEMs —potentially Chinese ones— make the car, and Google is a high margin but relatively lower revenue software provider. I’ll still love Google for it though.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedElon Dreams and Bitter LessonsDateTuesday, October 15, 2024Intel, Mobileye, and Smiling CurvesDateTuesday, March 14, 2017Uber QuestionsDateMonday, April 22, 2019←More on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationOpenAI DevDay, OpenAI’s Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the Top→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Taking Waymo, Uber and WaymoTuesday, October 1, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On theMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Techwe followed up on Orion (including a discussion about why the Luxottica partnership is such a win), addressed the executive turnover at OpenAI, and discussed the current state of ESPN in the wake of recent high-profile layoffs.On to the Update:Taking WaymoOrion wasn’t the only exciting new technology I tried out last week; while Meta Connect was the proximate cause for me to be in the Bay Area, I made sure to take a trip up to San Francisco to take a few trips in Google’s self-driving cars. I found the experience extraordinary.The ride itself was, on any objective basis, pretty uneventful. Waymo picked me up, navigated San Francisco’s streets skillfully, and dropped me off. That in-and-of-itself is of course remarkable: a car without a human was just as good — actually, probably better — than one with one.What was really surprising to me, though, was how I felt about the entire thing. After Waymo greeted me by name, explained the process (which only happens on your first ride), and dropped me off with a cheery “Happy Friday”, I felt a twinge of — what is this?! — sadness as it drove away. I felt like I had just made a new friend, and now my friend was driving away after too short a time together.Look, I know this is objectively ridiculous. But the emotion was really quite powerful! It makes me think that as robots proliferate in daily life that humans are going to develop attachments; when a favorite robot breaks down or needs to be replaced people are going to be sad. I’m not totally sure why this is, but I suspect the verbal aspect of the interaction plays an important part. Communication is meaningful, and the capacity of devices to communicate in a natural way with humans is, well, humanizing.What was the most striking was how this experience made me think about Google: I felt a genuine surge of affection for the Internet giant. Google has obviously always been a major presence in everyone’s experience of the Internet, which is to increasingly say everyone’s experience of modern life. The nature of that experience, though, is that of a utility: I type something in my browser — which may not even be branded Google — and get results that help me do my job or look something up. Weirdly enough, though, it was a human-less car that, for me anyway, humanized Google. This faceless corporation was picking me up, talking to me, keeping me safe, and delivering me where I needed to go; I still have a bit of glow thinking back on it a few days later.Ireferred last weektoTech’s Two Philosophies, wherein Apple and Microsoft seek to help you get stuff done, while Google and Meta seek to do things for you; I wrote about Google specifically:In Google’s view, computers help you get things done — and save you time — by doing things for you. Duplex was the most impressive example — a computer talking on the phone for you — but the general concept applied to many of Google’s other demonstrations, particularly those predicated on AI: Google Photos will not only sort and tag your photos, but now propose specific edits; Google News will find your news for you, and Maps will find you new restaurants and shops in your neighborhood. And, appropriately enough, the keynote closed with a presentation from Waymo, which will drive you.It’s the real world nature of Waymo that sets it apart from those other examples. One oddity, though, is that while I was just waxing poetic about Google, nothing in the Waymo experience is actually branded Google; indeed, it’s technically not associated with Google at all, but rather Alphabet, Google’s parent company that no one ever refers to.There are good reasons for this; Waymo has cost a lot of money to develop, and it’s helpful to understand Google’s financials without the costs associated with self-driving cars, an unrelated business to advertising-monetized information services. That distinction will only grow when and if Google starts manufacturing Waymo’s at scale; that will be a lot of depreciable hard assets that have different return profiles than servers (although the vast increases in capital expenditures for AI are maybe making the businesses look more similar than you might have expected a decade ago). At the same time, the Waymo branding feels like a missed opportunity for Google to really burnish its brand. I can’t overstate how positively the experience made me feel about the company as a whole, even if that feeling was clearly more subjective and emotional than objective and intellectual.And, of course, the second ride was a lot less notable and emotional than the first. I tried to be disciplined about paying attention to the car, but I started to look at my phone for more of it; I would imagine by the third or fourth ride I would hardly give the lack of driver a second thought. Allen Pike described exactly thison his blog:The future is weird.Last summer, while I was in San Francisco, a friend asked how I was getting back to my hotel.“An Uber, I guess,” I shrugged.His eyes lit up. “Have you tried the self-driving cars yet?” A couple taps on his phone and a few minutes later, an algorithm was piloting us across the city.As I understand it, my first experience in a self-driving car was typical:Minute 1: “How safe is this? Will it notice that cyclist? What about those construction cones?”Minute 10: “This is wild. It’s driving so calmly and safely. I love it.”Minute 20: (Bored, checking my email in the back seat.)It was like a firmware update to my brain.This rapid adaptability is really remarkable, and will likely be a theme — mostly unnoticed, but pervasive — over the coming years as AI takes over more and more use cases; indeed, how many of you reading this are already more bored than you realized by large language models? The future arrived, and we called it Tuesday.Or, in the case of Waymo, it’s called San Francisco. There was a time a decade ago where being in San Francisco felt like living in the future, particularly with the advent of smartphone-mediated services like Uber and Airbnb, or rapid delivery; then, over the ensuing years, the future came to the rest of the world, and seemed a lot less special, even as the aggregate impact increased dramatically. That cycle feels like it is starting up again: San Francisco has Waymo, and it is the center of AI; the future is located in a dysfunctional city with crappy weather blessed with some of the most incredible natural beauty on earth. It’s kind of amazing to think that we’ll be bored when the innovations being trialed today are brought to the rest of the world.Uber and WaymoFrom theWaymo blogin mid-September:Today, Waymo and Uber are announcing an expanded partnership to bring the Waymo One experience to Austin and Atlanta, only on the Uber app, beginning in early 2025. In these cities, Uber will manage and dispatch a fleet of Waymo’s fully autonomous, all-electric Jaguar I-PACE vehicles, which will grow to hundreds of vehicles over time.“Waymo’s mission is to be the world’s most trusted driver, and we’re excited to launch this expanded network and operations partnership with Uber in Austin and Atlanta to bring the benefits of fully autonomous driving to more riders,” said Tekedra Mawakana, co-CEO, Waymo. “We’ve been delighted at the positive feedback from our Waymo One riders to date, and we can’t wait to bring the comfort, convenience, and safety of the Waymo Driver to these cities in partnership with Uber.”“We’re thrilled to build on our successful partnership with Waymo, which has already powered fully autonomous trips for tens of thousands of riders in Phoenix,” said Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of Uber. “Soon, riders in Austin and Atlanta will be able to experience that same mobility magic, through a new fleet of dedicated autonomous Waymo vehicles, available only on Uber.”Through this expanded partnership, Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations. Waymo will continue to be responsible for the testing and operation of the Waymo Driver, including roadside assistance and certain rider support functions.This shouldn’t be a surprise to Stratechery readers; I have been consistently opposed both to Uber building self-driving carsandto Google trying to build their own Uber-like service. I wrotein 2017:The reality would — may — be more complicated. I think Google would likely be better off licensing its technology in the long run; indeed, it seems blindingly obvious that Google and Uber should have been partners. In fact, there is a strong analogy to Apple and Google: it ought to have been Apple making iPhones and Google providing services, to the benefit of both. In that case Google wanted more, and the price it paid was dear: default access to the most attractive part of the market. One can certainly make the case that Google made the same mistake here: by wanting it all it lost the easiest path to a very lucrative market; a prize of punitive damages would be a very paltry one in comparison.The context for that post was Google’s lawsuit about Uber stealing their intellectual property for self-driving cars; the two companies settled a year later. Then, frommy Articleabout Uber’s S-1:One of the biggest existential questions surrounding Uber (and Lyft) is self-driving cars: what happens when drivers are no longer necessary? In fact, it was here that I thoughtUber’s S-1was strongest:Along the way to a potential future autonomous vehicle world, we believe that there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy, in which autonomous vehicles will be deployed gradually against specific use cases while Drivers continue to serve most consumer demand. As we solve specific autonomous use cases, we will deploy autonomous vehicles against them. Such situations may include trips along a standard, well-mapped route in a predictable environment in good weather. In other situations, such as those that involve substantial traffic, complex routes, or unusual weather conditions, we will continue to rely on Drivers. Moreover, high-demand events, such as concerts or sporting events, will likely exceed the capacity of a highly utilized, fully autonomous vehicle fleet and require the dynamic addition of Drivers to the network in real time. Our regional on-the-ground operations teams will be critical to maintaining reliable supply for such high-demand events.Deciding which trip receives a vehicle driven by a Driver and which receives an autonomous vehicle, and deploying both in real time while maintaining liquidity in all situations, is a dynamic that we believe is imperative for the success of an autonomous vehicle future. Accordingly, we believe that we will be uniquely suited for this dynamic during the expected long hybrid period of co-existence of Drivers and autonomous vehicles. Drivers are therefore a critical and differentiating advantage for us and will continue to be our valued partners for the long-term. We will continue to partner with original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and other technology companies to determine how to most effectively leverage our network during the transition to autonomous vehicle technologies.This fitsmy previous read on the situation: I think that the most likely go-to-market for autonomous cars is via the ride-sharing networks, not as a substitute, and that driver availability and liquidity will continue to be differentiating factors.The other factorI’ve noted in the pastis that Uber does have some degree of network effects andis an Aggregatorin that regard; one of the most important factors for (expensive) self-driving cars will be high utilization, and Uber is best positioned to deliver that, in addition to having the human driver component for surges in demand.There is one additional factor that is highlighted by this deal, specifically the fact that “Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations”. That’s low margin work that has a significant human component, which is to say it is work that is out-of-line with Google’s cost structure and management capabilities; Uber, on the other hand, is a significantly lower margin business with a huge on-the-ground human management component. I suspect these factors are underrated in predicting future market structure — I should have noted them before now! — but they are significant.More generally, the longer that Waymo stays an Alphabet subsidiary the greater the likelihood is that Uber wins as a transportation Aggregator; if Google wants to actually own the market then I think they would need to spin Waymo out into a standalone entity that is committed to getting its hands dirty and it’s ROIC ratios lower. What is more likely to happen under the current structure is that Uber owns the customer, OEMs —potentially Chinese ones— make the car, and Google is a high margin but relatively lower revenue software provider. I’ll still love Google for it though.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedElon Dreams and Bitter LessonsDateTuesday, October 15, 2024Intel, Mobileye, and Smiling CurvesDateTuesday, March 14, 2017Uber QuestionsDateMonday, April 22, 2019←More on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationOpenAI DevDay, OpenAI’s Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the Top→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Taking Waymo, Uber and WaymoTuesday, October 1, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On theMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Techwe followed up on Orion (including a discussion about why the Luxottica partnership is such a win), addressed the executive turnover at OpenAI, and discussed the current state of ESPN in the wake of recent high-profile layoffs.On to the Update:Taking WaymoOrion wasn’t the only exciting new technology I tried out last week; while Meta Connect was the proximate cause for me to be in the Bay Area, I made sure to take a trip up to San Francisco to take a few trips in Google’s self-driving cars. I found the experience extraordinary.The ride itself was, on any objective basis, pretty uneventful. Waymo picked me up, navigated San Francisco’s streets skillfully, and dropped me off. That in-and-of-itself is of course remarkable: a car without a human was just as good — actually, probably better — than one with one.What was really surprising to me, though, was how I felt about the entire thing. After Waymo greeted me by name, explained the process (which only happens on your first ride), and dropped me off with a cheery “Happy Friday”, I felt a twinge of — what is this?! — sadness as it drove away. I felt like I had just made a new friend, and now my friend was driving away after too short a time together.Look, I know this is objectively ridiculous. But the emotion was really quite powerful! It makes me think that as robots proliferate in daily life that humans are going to develop attachments; when a favorite robot breaks down or needs to be replaced people are going to be sad. I’m not totally sure why this is, but I suspect the verbal aspect of the interaction plays an important part. Communication is meaningful, and the capacity of devices to communicate in a natural way with humans is, well, humanizing.What was the most striking was how this experience made me think about Google: I felt a genuine surge of affection for the Internet giant. Google has obviously always been a major presence in everyone’s experience of the Internet, which is to increasingly say everyone’s experience of modern life. The nature of that experience, though, is that of a utility: I type something in my browser — which may not even be branded Google — and get results that help me do my job or look something up. Weirdly enough, though, it was a human-less car that, for me anyway, humanized Google. This faceless corporation was picking me up, talking to me, keeping me safe, and delivering me where I needed to go; I still have a bit of glow thinking back on it a few days later.Ireferred last weektoTech’s Two Philosophies, wherein Apple and Microsoft seek to help you get stuff done, while Google and Meta seek to do things for you; I wrote about Google specifically:In Google’s view, computers help you get things done — and save you time — by doing things for you. Duplex was the most impressive example — a computer talking on the phone for you — but the general concept applied to many of Google’s other demonstrations, particularly those predicated on AI: Google Photos will not only sort and tag your photos, but now propose specific edits; Google News will find your news for you, and Maps will find you new restaurants and shops in your neighborhood. And, appropriately enough, the keynote closed with a presentation from Waymo, which will drive you.It’s the real world nature of Waymo that sets it apart from those other examples. One oddity, though, is that while I was just waxing poetic about Google, nothing in the Waymo experience is actually branded Google; indeed, it’s technically not associated with Google at all, but rather Alphabet, Google’s parent company that no one ever refers to.There are good reasons for this; Waymo has cost a lot of money to develop, and it’s helpful to understand Google’s financials without the costs associated with self-driving cars, an unrelated business to advertising-monetized information services. That distinction will only grow when and if Google starts manufacturing Waymo’s at scale; that will be a lot of depreciable hard assets that have different return profiles than servers (although the vast increases in capital expenditures for AI are maybe making the businesses look more similar than you might have expected a decade ago). At the same time, the Waymo branding feels like a missed opportunity for Google to really burnish its brand. I can’t overstate how positively the experience made me feel about the company as a whole, even if that feeling was clearly more subjective and emotional than objective and intellectual.And, of course, the second ride was a lot less notable and emotional than the first. I tried to be disciplined about paying attention to the car, but I started to look at my phone for more of it; I would imagine by the third or fourth ride I would hardly give the lack of driver a second thought. Allen Pike described exactly thison his blog:The future is weird.Last summer, while I was in San Francisco, a friend asked how I was getting back to my hotel.“An Uber, I guess,” I shrugged.His eyes lit up. “Have you tried the self-driving cars yet?” A couple taps on his phone and a few minutes later, an algorithm was piloting us across the city.As I understand it, my first experience in a self-driving car was typical:Minute 1: “How safe is this? Will it notice that cyclist? What about those construction cones?”Minute 10: “This is wild. It’s driving so calmly and safely. I love it.”Minute 20: (Bored, checking my email in the back seat.)It was like a firmware update to my brain.This rapid adaptability is really remarkable, and will likely be a theme — mostly unnoticed, but pervasive — over the coming years as AI takes over more and more use cases; indeed, how many of you reading this are already more bored than you realized by large language models? The future arrived, and we called it Tuesday.Or, in the case of Waymo, it’s called San Francisco. There was a time a decade ago where being in San Francisco felt like living in the future, particularly with the advent of smartphone-mediated services like Uber and Airbnb, or rapid delivery; then, over the ensuing years, the future came to the rest of the world, and seemed a lot less special, even as the aggregate impact increased dramatically. That cycle feels like it is starting up again: San Francisco has Waymo, and it is the center of AI; the future is located in a dysfunctional city with crappy weather blessed with some of the most incredible natural beauty on earth. It’s kind of amazing to think that we’ll be bored when the innovations being trialed today are brought to the rest of the world.Uber and WaymoFrom theWaymo blogin mid-September:Today, Waymo and Uber are announcing an expanded partnership to bring the Waymo One experience to Austin and Atlanta, only on the Uber app, beginning in early 2025. In these cities, Uber will manage and dispatch a fleet of Waymo’s fully autonomous, all-electric Jaguar I-PACE vehicles, which will grow to hundreds of vehicles over time.“Waymo’s mission is to be the world’s most trusted driver, and we’re excited to launch this expanded network and operations partnership with Uber in Austin and Atlanta to bring the benefits of fully autonomous driving to more riders,” said Tekedra Mawakana, co-CEO, Waymo. “We’ve been delighted at the positive feedback from our Waymo One riders to date, and we can’t wait to bring the comfort, convenience, and safety of the Waymo Driver to these cities in partnership with Uber.”“We’re thrilled to build on our successful partnership with Waymo, which has already powered fully autonomous trips for tens of thousands of riders in Phoenix,” said Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of Uber. “Soon, riders in Austin and Atlanta will be able to experience that same mobility magic, through a new fleet of dedicated autonomous Waymo vehicles, available only on Uber.”Through this expanded partnership, Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations. Waymo will continue to be responsible for the testing and operation of the Waymo Driver, including roadside assistance and certain rider support functions.This shouldn’t be a surprise to Stratechery readers; I have been consistently opposed both to Uber building self-driving carsandto Google trying to build their own Uber-like service. I wrotein 2017:The reality would — may — be more complicated. I think Google would likely be better off licensing its technology in the long run; indeed, it seems blindingly obvious that Google and Uber should have been partners. In fact, there is a strong analogy to Apple and Google: it ought to have been Apple making iPhones and Google providing services, to the benefit of both. In that case Google wanted more, and the price it paid was dear: default access to the most attractive part of the market. One can certainly make the case that Google made the same mistake here: by wanting it all it lost the easiest path to a very lucrative market; a prize of punitive damages would be a very paltry one in comparison.The context for that post was Google’s lawsuit about Uber stealing their intellectual property for self-driving cars; the two companies settled a year later. Then, frommy Articleabout Uber’s S-1:One of the biggest existential questions surrounding Uber (and Lyft) is self-driving cars: what happens when drivers are no longer necessary? In fact, it was here that I thoughtUber’s S-1was strongest:Along the way to a potential future autonomous vehicle world, we believe that there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy, in which autonomous vehicles will be deployed gradually against specific use cases while Drivers continue to serve most consumer demand. As we solve specific autonomous use cases, we will deploy autonomous vehicles against them. Such situations may include trips along a standard, well-mapped route in a predictable environment in good weather. In other situations, such as those that involve substantial traffic, complex routes, or unusual weather conditions, we will continue to rely on Drivers. Moreover, high-demand events, such as concerts or sporting events, will likely exceed the capacity of a highly utilized, fully autonomous vehicle fleet and require the dynamic addition of Drivers to the network in real time. Our regional on-the-ground operations teams will be critical to maintaining reliable supply for such high-demand events.Deciding which trip receives a vehicle driven by a Driver and which receives an autonomous vehicle, and deploying both in real time while maintaining liquidity in all situations, is a dynamic that we believe is imperative for the success of an autonomous vehicle future. Accordingly, we believe that we will be uniquely suited for this dynamic during the expected long hybrid period of co-existence of Drivers and autonomous vehicles. Drivers are therefore a critical and differentiating advantage for us and will continue to be our valued partners for the long-term. We will continue to partner with original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and other technology companies to determine how to most effectively leverage our network during the transition to autonomous vehicle technologies.This fitsmy previous read on the situation: I think that the most likely go-to-market for autonomous cars is via the ride-sharing networks, not as a substitute, and that driver availability and liquidity will continue to be differentiating factors.The other factorI’ve noted in the pastis that Uber does have some degree of network effects andis an Aggregatorin that regard; one of the most important factors for (expensive) self-driving cars will be high utilization, and Uber is best positioned to deliver that, in addition to having the human driver component for surges in demand.There is one additional factor that is highlighted by this deal, specifically the fact that “Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations”. That’s low margin work that has a significant human component, which is to say it is work that is out-of-line with Google’s cost structure and management capabilities; Uber, on the other hand, is a significantly lower margin business with a huge on-the-ground human management component. I suspect these factors are underrated in predicting future market structure — I should have noted them before now! — but they are significant.More generally, the longer that Waymo stays an Alphabet subsidiary the greater the likelihood is that Uber wins as a transportation Aggregator; if Google wants to actually own the market then I think they would need to spin Waymo out into a standalone entity that is committed to getting its hands dirty and it’s ROIC ratios lower. What is more likely to happen under the current structure is that Uber owns the customer, OEMs —potentially Chinese ones— make the car, and Google is a high margin but relatively lower revenue software provider. I’ll still love Google for it though.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedElon Dreams and Bitter LessonsDateTuesday, October 15, 2024Intel, Mobileye, and Smiling CurvesDateTuesday, March 14, 2017Uber QuestionsDateMonday, April 22, 2019←More on Orion, Where Vision Pro Went Wrong, Apple’s Response and Meta’s MotivationOpenAI DevDay, OpenAI’s Wrenching Transition, Lonely At the Top→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On theMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Techwe followed up on Orion (including a discussion about why the Luxottica partnership is such a win), addressed the executive turnover at OpenAI, and discussed the current state of ESPN in the wake of recent high-profile layoffs.On to the Update:Taking WaymoOrion wasn’t the only exciting new technology I tried out last week; while Meta Connect was the proximate cause for me to be in the Bay Area, I made sure to take a trip up to San Francisco to take a few trips in Google’s self-driving cars. I found the experience extraordinary.The ride itself was, on any objective basis, pretty uneventful. Waymo picked me up, navigated San Francisco’s streets skillfully, and dropped me off. That in-and-of-itself is of course remarkable: a car without a human was just as good — actually, probably better — than one with one.What was really surprising to me, though, was how I felt about the entire thing. After Waymo greeted me by name, explained the process (which only happens on your first ride), and dropped me off with a cheery “Happy Friday”, I felt a twinge of — what is this?! — sadness as it drove away. I felt like I had just made a new friend, and now my friend was driving away after too short a time together.Look, I know this is objectively ridiculous. But the emotion was really quite powerful! It makes me think that as robots proliferate in daily life that humans are going to develop attachments; when a favorite robot breaks down or needs to be replaced people are going to be sad. I’m not totally sure why this is, but I suspect the verbal aspect of the interaction plays an important part. Communication is meaningful, and the capacity of devices to communicate in a natural way with humans is, well, humanizing.What was the most striking was how this experience made me think about Google: I felt a genuine surge of affection for the Internet giant. Google has obviously always been a major presence in everyone’s experience of the Internet, which is to increasingly say everyone’s experience of modern life. The nature of that experience, though, is that of a utility: I type something in my browser — which may not even be branded Google — and get results that help me do my job or look something up. Weirdly enough, though, it was a human-less car that, for me anyway, humanized Google. This faceless corporation was picking me up, talking to me, keeping me safe, and delivering me where I needed to go; I still have a bit of glow thinking back on it a few days later.Ireferred last weektoTech’s Two Philosophies, wherein Apple and Microsoft seek to help you get stuff done, while Google and Meta seek to do things for you; I wrote about Google specifically:In Google’s view, computers help you get things done — and save you time — by doing things for you. Duplex was the most impressive example — a computer talking on the phone for you — but the general concept applied to many of Google’s other demonstrations, particularly those predicated on AI: Google Photos will not only sort and tag your photos, but now propose specific edits; Google News will find your news for you, and Maps will find you new restaurants and shops in your neighborhood. And, appropriately enough, the keynote closed with a presentation from Waymo, which will drive you.It’s the real world nature of Waymo that sets it apart from those other examples. One oddity, though, is that while I was just waxing poetic about Google, nothing in the Waymo experience is actually branded Google; indeed, it’s technically not associated with Google at all, but rather Alphabet, Google’s parent company that no one ever refers to.There are good reasons for this; Waymo has cost a lot of money to develop, and it’s helpful to understand Google’s financials without the costs associated with self-driving cars, an unrelated business to advertising-monetized information services. That distinction will only grow when and if Google starts manufacturing Waymo’s at scale; that will be a lot of depreciable hard assets that have different return profiles than servers (although the vast increases in capital expenditures for AI are maybe making the businesses look more similar than you might have expected a decade ago). At the same time, the Waymo branding feels like a missed opportunity for Google to really burnish its brand. I can’t overstate how positively the experience made me feel about the company as a whole, even if that feeling was clearly more subjective and emotional than objective and intellectual.And, of course, the second ride was a lot less notable and emotional than the first. I tried to be disciplined about paying attention to the car, but I started to look at my phone for more of it; I would imagine by the third or fourth ride I would hardly give the lack of driver a second thought. Allen Pike described exactly thison his blog:The future is weird.Last summer, while I was in San Francisco, a friend asked how I was getting back to my hotel.“An Uber, I guess,” I shrugged.His eyes lit up. “Have you tried the self-driving cars yet?” A couple taps on his phone and a few minutes later, an algorithm was piloting us across the city.As I understand it, my first experience in a self-driving car was typical:Minute 1: “How safe is this? Will it notice that cyclist? What about those construction cones?”Minute 10: “This is wild. It’s driving so calmly and safely. I love it.”Minute 20: (Bored, checking my email in the back seat.)It was like a firmware update to my brain.This rapid adaptability is really remarkable, and will likely be a theme — mostly unnoticed, but pervasive — over the coming years as AI takes over more and more use cases; indeed, how many of you reading this are already more bored than you realized by large language models? The future arrived, and we called it Tuesday.Or, in the case of Waymo, it’s called San Francisco. There was a time a decade ago where being in San Francisco felt like living in the future, particularly with the advent of smartphone-mediated services like Uber and Airbnb, or rapid delivery; then, over the ensuing years, the future came to the rest of the world, and seemed a lot less special, even as the aggregate impact increased dramatically. That cycle feels like it is starting up again: San Francisco has Waymo, and it is the center of AI; the future is located in a dysfunctional city with crappy weather blessed with some of the most incredible natural beauty on earth. It’s kind of amazing to think that we’ll be bored when the innovations being trialed today are brought to the rest of the world.Uber and WaymoFrom theWaymo blogin mid-September:Today, Waymo and Uber are announcing an expanded partnership to bring the Waymo One experience to Austin and Atlanta, only on the Uber app, beginning in early 2025. In these cities, Uber will manage and dispatch a fleet of Waymo’s fully autonomous, all-electric Jaguar I-PACE vehicles, which will grow to hundreds of vehicles over time.“Waymo’s mission is to be the world’s most trusted driver, and we’re excited to launch this expanded network and operations partnership with Uber in Austin and Atlanta to bring the benefits of fully autonomous driving to more riders,” said Tekedra Mawakana, co-CEO, Waymo. “We’ve been delighted at the positive feedback from our Waymo One riders to date, and we can’t wait to bring the comfort, convenience, and safety of the Waymo Driver to these cities in partnership with Uber.”“We’re thrilled to build on our successful partnership with Waymo, which has already powered fully autonomous trips for tens of thousands of riders in Phoenix,” said Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of Uber. “Soon, riders in Austin and Atlanta will be able to experience that same mobility magic, through a new fleet of dedicated autonomous Waymo vehicles, available only on Uber.”Through this expanded partnership, Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations. Waymo will continue to be responsible for the testing and operation of the Waymo Driver, including roadside assistance and certain rider support functions.This shouldn’t be a surprise to Stratechery readers; I have been consistently opposed both to Uber building self-driving carsandto Google trying to build their own Uber-like service. I wrotein 2017:The reality would — may — be more complicated. I think Google would likely be better off licensing its technology in the long run; indeed, it seems blindingly obvious that Google and Uber should have been partners. In fact, there is a strong analogy to Apple and Google: it ought to have been Apple making iPhones and Google providing services, to the benefit of both. In that case Google wanted more, and the price it paid was dear: default access to the most attractive part of the market. One can certainly make the case that Google made the same mistake here: by wanting it all it lost the easiest path to a very lucrative market; a prize of punitive damages would be a very paltry one in comparison.The context for that post was Google’s lawsuit about Uber stealing their intellectual property for self-driving cars; the two companies settled a year later. Then, frommy Articleabout Uber’s S-1:One of the biggest existential questions surrounding Uber (and Lyft) is self-driving cars: what happens when drivers are no longer necessary? In fact, it was here that I thoughtUber’s S-1was strongest:Along the way to a potential future autonomous vehicle world, we believe that there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy, in which autonomous vehicles will be deployed gradually against specific use cases while Drivers continue to serve most consumer demand. As we solve specific autonomous use cases, we will deploy autonomous vehicles against them. Such situations may include trips along a standard, well-mapped route in a predictable environment in good weather. In other situations, such as those that involve substantial traffic, complex routes, or unusual weather conditions, we will continue to rely on Drivers. Moreover, high-demand events, such as concerts or sporting events, will likely exceed the capacity of a highly utilized, fully autonomous vehicle fleet and require the dynamic addition of Drivers to the network in real time. Our regional on-the-ground operations teams will be critical to maintaining reliable supply for such high-demand events.Deciding which trip receives a vehicle driven by a Driver and which receives an autonomous vehicle, and deploying both in real time while maintaining liquidity in all situations, is a dynamic that we believe is imperative for the success of an autonomous vehicle future. Accordingly, we believe that we will be uniquely suited for this dynamic during the expected long hybrid period of co-existence of Drivers and autonomous vehicles. Drivers are therefore a critical and differentiating advantage for us and will continue to be our valued partners for the long-term. We will continue to partner with original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and other technology companies to determine how to most effectively leverage our network during the transition to autonomous vehicle technologies.This fitsmy previous read on the situation: I think that the most likely go-to-market for autonomous cars is via the ride-sharing networks, not as a substitute, and that driver availability and liquidity will continue to be differentiating factors.The other factorI’ve noted in the pastis that Uber does have some degree of network effects andis an Aggregatorin that regard; one of the most important factors for (expensive) self-driving cars will be high utilization, and Uber is best positioned to deliver that, in addition to having the human driver component for surges in demand.There is one additional factor that is highlighted by this deal, specifically the fact that “Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations”. That’s low margin work that has a significant human component, which is to say it is work that is out-of-line with Google’s cost structure and management capabilities; Uber, on the other hand, is a significantly lower margin business with a huge on-the-ground human management component. I suspect these factors are underrated in predicting future market structure — I should have noted them before now! — but they are significant.More generally, the longer that Waymo stays an Alphabet subsidiary the greater the likelihood is that Uber wins as a transportation Aggregator; if Google wants to actually own the market then I think they would need to spin Waymo out into a standalone entity that is committed to getting its hands dirty and it’s ROIC ratios lower. What is more likely to happen under the current structure is that Uber owns the customer, OEMs —potentially Chinese ones— make the car, and Google is a high margin but relatively lower revenue software provider. I’ll still love Google for it though.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email On theMailbag Monday episode of Sharp Techwe followed up on Orion (including a discussion about why the Luxottica partnership is such a win), addressed the executive turnover at OpenAI, and discussed the current state of ESPN in the wake of recent high-profile layoffs. Orion wasn’t the only exciting new technology I tried out last week; while Meta Connect was the proximate cause for me to be in the Bay Area, I made sure to take a trip up to San Francisco to take a few trips in Google’s self-driving cars. I found the experience extraordinary. The ride itself was, on any objective basis, pretty uneventful. Waymo picked me up, navigated San Francisco’s streets skillfully, and dropped me off. That in-and-of-itself is of course remarkable: a car without a human was just as good — actually, probably better — than one with one. What was really surprising to me, though, was how I felt about the entire thing. After Waymo greeted me by name, explained the process (which only happens on your first ride), and dropped me off with a cheery “Happy Friday”, I felt a twinge of — what is this?! — sadness as it drove away. I felt like I had just made a new friend, and now my friend was driving away after too short a time together. Look, I know this is objectively ridiculous. But the emotion was really quite powerful! It makes me think that as robots proliferate in daily life that humans are going to develop attachments; when a favorite robot breaks down or needs to be replaced people are going to be sad. I’m not totally sure why this is, but I suspect the verbal aspect of the interaction plays an important part. Communication is meaningful, and the capacity of devices to communicate in a natural way with humans is, well, humanizing. What was the most striking was how this experience made me think about Google: I felt a genuine surge of affection for the Internet giant. Google has obviously always been a major presence in everyone’s experience of the Internet, which is to increasingly say everyone’s experience of modern life. The nature of that experience, though, is that of a utility: I type something in my browser — which may not even be branded Google — and get results that help me do my job or look something up. Weirdly enough, though, it was a human-less car that, for me anyway, humanized Google. This faceless corporation was picking me up, talking to me, keeping me safe, and delivering me where I needed to go; I still have a bit of glow thinking back on it a few days later. In Google’s view, computers help you get things done — and save you time — by doing things for you. Duplex was the most impressive example — a computer talking on the phone for you — but the general concept applied to many of Google’s other demonstrations, particularly those predicated on AI: Google Photos will not only sort and tag your photos, but now propose specific edits; Google News will find your news for you, and Maps will find you new restaurants and shops in your neighborhood. And, appropriately enough, the keynote closed with a presentation from Waymo, which will drive you. It’s the real world nature of Waymo that sets it apart from those other examples. One oddity, though, is that while I was just waxing poetic about Google, nothing in the Waymo experience is actually branded Google; indeed, it’s technically not associated with Google at all, but rather Alphabet, Google’s parent company that no one ever refers to. There are good reasons for this; Waymo has cost a lot of money to develop, and it’s helpful to understand Google’s financials without the costs associated with self-driving cars, an unrelated business to advertising-monetized information services. That distinction will only grow when and if Google starts manufacturing Waymo’s at scale; that will be a lot of depreciable hard assets that have different return profiles than servers (although the vast increases in capital expenditures for AI are maybe making the businesses look more similar than you might have expected a decade ago). At the same time, the Waymo branding feels like a missed opportunity for Google to really burnish its brand. I can’t overstate how positively the experience made me feel about the company as a whole, even if that feeling was clearly more subjective and emotional than objective and intellectual. And, of course, the second ride was a lot less notable and emotional than the first. I tried to be disciplined about paying attention to the car, but I started to look at my phone for more of it; I would imagine by the third or fourth ride I would hardly give the lack of driver a second thought. Allen Pike described exactly thison his blog: This rapid adaptability is really remarkable, and will likely be a theme — mostly unnoticed, but pervasive — over the coming years as AI takes over more and more use cases; indeed, how many of you reading this are already more bored than you realized by large language models? The future arrived, and we called it Tuesday. Or, in the case of Waymo, it’s called San Francisco. There was a time a decade ago where being in San Francisco felt like living in the future, particularly with the advent of smartphone-mediated services like Uber and Airbnb, or rapid delivery; then, over the ensuing years, the future came to the rest of the world, and seemed a lot less special, even as the aggregate impact increased dramatically. That cycle feels like it is starting up again: San Francisco has Waymo, and it is the center of AI; the future is located in a dysfunctional city with crappy weather blessed with some of the most incredible natural beauty on earth. It’s kind of amazing to think that we’ll be bored when the innovations being trialed today are brought to the rest of the world. Today, Waymo and Uber are announcing an expanded partnership to bring the Waymo One experience to Austin and Atlanta, only on the Uber app, beginning in early 2025. In these cities, Uber will manage and dispatch a fleet of Waymo’s fully autonomous, all-electric Jaguar I-PACE vehicles, which will grow to hundreds of vehicles over time. “Waymo’s mission is to be the world’s most trusted driver, and we’re excited to launch this expanded network and operations partnership with Uber in Austin and Atlanta to bring the benefits of fully autonomous driving to more riders,” said Tekedra Mawakana, co-CEO, Waymo. “We’ve been delighted at the positive feedback from our Waymo One riders to date, and we can’t wait to bring the comfort, convenience, and safety of the Waymo Driver to these cities in partnership with Uber.” “We’re thrilled to build on our successful partnership with Waymo, which has already powered fully autonomous trips for tens of thousands of riders in Phoenix,” said Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of Uber. “Soon, riders in Austin and Atlanta will be able to experience that same mobility magic, through a new fleet of dedicated autonomous Waymo vehicles, available only on Uber.” Through this expanded partnership, Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations. Waymo will continue to be responsible for the testing and operation of the Waymo Driver, including roadside assistance and certain rider support functions. The reality would — may — be more complicated. I think Google would likely be better off licensing its technology in the long run; indeed, it seems blindingly obvious that Google and Uber should have been partners. In fact, there is a strong analogy to Apple and Google: it ought to have been Apple making iPhones and Google providing services, to the benefit of both. In that case Google wanted more, and the price it paid was dear: default access to the most attractive part of the market. One can certainly make the case that Google made the same mistake here: by wanting it all it lost the easiest path to a very lucrative market; a prize of punitive damages would be a very paltry one in comparison. One of the biggest existential questions surrounding Uber (and Lyft) is self-driving cars: what happens when drivers are no longer necessary? In fact, it was here that I thoughtUber’s S-1was strongest: Along the way to a potential future autonomous vehicle world, we believe that there will be a long period of hybrid autonomy, in which autonomous vehicles will be deployed gradually against specific use cases while Drivers continue to serve most consumer demand. As we solve specific autonomous use cases, we will deploy autonomous vehicles against them. Such situations may include trips along a standard, well-mapped route in a predictable environment in good weather. In other situations, such as those that involve substantial traffic, complex routes, or unusual weather conditions, we will continue to rely on Drivers. Moreover, high-demand events, such as concerts or sporting events, will likely exceed the capacity of a highly utilized, fully autonomous vehicle fleet and require the dynamic addition of Drivers to the network in real time. Our regional on-the-ground operations teams will be critical to maintaining reliable supply for such high-demand events. Deciding which trip receives a vehicle driven by a Driver and which receives an autonomous vehicle, and deploying both in real time while maintaining liquidity in all situations, is a dynamic that we believe is imperative for the success of an autonomous vehicle future. Accordingly, we believe that we will be uniquely suited for this dynamic during the expected long hybrid period of co-existence of Drivers and autonomous vehicles. Drivers are therefore a critical and differentiating advantage for us and will continue to be our valued partners for the long-term. We will continue to partner with original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and other technology companies to determine how to most effectively leverage our network during the transition to autonomous vehicle technologies. This fitsmy previous read on the situation: I think that the most likely go-to-market for autonomous cars is via the ride-sharing networks, not as a substitute, and that driver availability and liquidity will continue to be differentiating factors. The other factorI’ve noted in the pastis that Uber does have some degree of network effects andis an Aggregatorin that regard; one of the most important factors for (expensive) self-driving cars will be high utilization, and Uber is best positioned to deliver that, in addition to having the human driver component for surges in demand. There is one additional factor that is highlighted by this deal, specifically the fact that “Uber will provide fleet management services including vehicle cleaning, repair, and other general depot operations”. That’s low margin work that has a significant human component, which is to say it is work that is out-of-line with Google’s cost structure and management capabilities; Uber, on the other hand, is a significantly lower margin business with a huge on-the-ground human management component. I suspect these factors are underrated in predicting future market structure — I should have noted them before now! — but they are significant. More generally, the longer that Waymo stays an Alphabet subsidiary the greater the likelihood is that Uber wins as a transportation Aggregator; if Google wants to actually own the market then I think they would need to spin Waymo out into a standalone entity that is committed to getting its hands dirty and it’s ROIC ratios lower. What is more likely to happen under the current structure is that Uber owns the customer, OEMs —potentially Chinese ones— make the car, and Google is a high margin but relatively lower revenue software provider. I’ll still love Google for it though. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025