# [PODCAST] In defense of gift giving

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2022/12/20/1144558447/gift-giving-signaling-search-cost-behavioral-bias
**Atlas ID**: 229514
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.850370

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Three Nobel Prize-winning economic reasons to give gifts : Planet MoneyCold economic reasoning says, supposedly, thatgifts are inefficient transfers of wealth. But Planet Money host Jeff Guo believes in the economic virtues of gift giving. On today's show, Jeff tries to win over Planet Money's resident Scrooge, Kenny Malone, by going on a quest to find him the perfect gift. Along the way, they're visited by the spirits of three Nobel prize-winning economic theories that can explain why gift-giving is actually good. And by the end, Kenny's heartmay justgrow three sizes larger. Subscribe to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkIn defense of gift givingDecember 23, 20227:50 PM ETByJeff Guo,Kenny Malone,Willa Rubin,Jess JiangIn defense of gift givingListen·21:3821:38TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1144558447/1198959719" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageThe hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThe hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThere's a famous idea in economics that shopping for holiday gifts is a waste of time and money — an "orgy of wealth destruction," as the economistJoel Waldfogelonce put it. Economic logic says that instead of giving someone a present, you should just give them cash so they can buy themselves what they really want. Last year at Planet Money, we tried to spread that message by commissioning an original song called "Cash is King."But Planet Money host Jeff Guo believes in the economic virtues of gift giving. On today's show, Jeff tries to win over Planet Money's resident Scrooge, Kenny Malone, by going on a quest to find him the perfect gift. Along the way, they're visited by the spirits of three Nobel prize-winning economic theories that can explain why gift-giving is actually good. And by the end, Kenny's heartmay justgrow three sizes larger.Sponsor MessageToday's show was produced by Willa Rubin, with help from Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and James Sneed. It was edited by Jess Jiang, engineered by Robert Rodriguez, and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez.Planet MoneyPlanet Money's Supply Chain Holiday ExtravaganzaMusic: "Toy Ballet," "Quirky Christmas," "We Wish You A Merry Christmas" and "Playful Enchantment."Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ our weeklyNewsletter.FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor In defense of gift givingListen·21:3821:38TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1144558447/1198959719" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript In defense of gift givingListen·21:3821:38TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1144558447/1198959719" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1144558447/1198959719" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageThe hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThe hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThere's a famous idea in economics that shopping for holiday gifts is a waste of time and money — an "orgy of wealth destruction," as the economistJoel Waldfogelonce put it. Economic logic says that instead of giving someone a present, you should just give them cash so they can buy themselves what they really want. Last year at Planet Money, we tried to spread that message by commissioning an original song called "Cash is King."But Planet Money host Jeff Guo believes in the economic virtues of gift giving. On today's show, Jeff tries to win over Planet Money's resident Scrooge, Kenny Malone, by going on a quest to find him the perfect gift. Along the way, they're visited by the spirits of three Nobel prize-winning economic theories that can explain why gift-giving is actually good. And by the end, Kenny's heartmay justgrow three sizes larger.Sponsor MessageToday's show was produced by Willa Rubin, with help from Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and James Sneed. It was edited by Jess Jiang, engineered by Robert Rodriguez, and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez.Planet MoneyPlanet Money's Supply Chain Holiday ExtravaganzaMusic: "Toy Ballet," "Quirky Christmas," "We Wish You A Merry Christmas" and "Playful Enchantment."Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ our weeklyNewsletter. Enlarge this imageThe hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRThe hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR The hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle captionSam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR The hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide captiontoggle caption The hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide caption The hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPRhide caption The hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR The hosts of Planet Money at exchanged gifts at their remote Secret Santa party. They not only received presents to forever cherish, but also a lesson in economics they'll never forget.Sam Yellowhorse Kesler/NPR There's a famous idea in economics that shopping for holiday gifts is a waste of time and money — an "orgy of wealth destruction," as the economistJoel Waldfogelonce put it. Economic logic says that instead of giving someone a present, you should just give them cash so they can buy themselves what they really want. Last year at Planet Money, we tried to spread that message by commissioning an original song called "Cash is King." But Planet Money host Jeff Guo believes in the economic virtues of gift giving. On today's show, Jeff tries to win over Planet Money's resident Scrooge, Kenny Malone, by going on a quest to find him the perfect gift. Along the way, they're visited by the spirits of three Nobel prize-winning economic theories that can explain why gift-giving is actually good. And by the end, Kenny's heartmay justgrow three sizes larger. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra