# [PODCAST] More Chip Curbs?, Google LLM Status Check

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/more-chip-curbs-google-llm-status-check/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.jNfdtagq1I_Rw_zcs2S8SYCgPVMShTCpJk99Jk3DMi7pmgVLOZBqL-_gQ7qRlyiHLPT5ELVPsJvx5nv08ivfdiwYrzizBYDhbeMylCvDYNmQBVfWD1FThNmH778_JJN64qVxv_E-8BLgauWhf51Vha5dCwP-xPfMvoJ311s7JLoDqYz2oW69xeepfCDRCnyRtBrCVAlorAvPuSldmeEGA9RUPxHFv6kAUFquHZVhFG6TFxvWbo5Ji1uR--Fi-atOIofD_5atK_gI3jt99MBiEx81jVz_W8dAgHB4xRFheltvvN3qoK8UL6OYk_o3C_HN3XuFH6ZCTGyWpZ32dCzTyQ
**Atlas ID**: 229617
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.907030

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMore Chip Curbs?, Google LLM Status CheckWednesday, February 26, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Sharp Tech returned on Monday withan episodeabout Apple’s encryption fight with the U.K, and the potential for drone delivery.On to the Update:More Chip Curbs?FromBloomberg:Donald Trump’s administration is sketching out tougher versions of US semiconductor curbs and pressuring key allies to escalate their restrictions on China’s chip industry, an early indication the new US president plans to expand efforts that began under Joe Biden to limit Beijing’s technological prowess.Trump officials recently met with their Japanese and Dutch counterparts about restricting Tokyo Electron Ltd. and ASML Holding NV engineers from maintaining semiconductor gear in China, according to people familiar with the matter. The aim, which was also a priority for Biden, is to see key allies match China curbs the US has placed on American chip-gear companies, including Lam Research Corp., KLA Corp. and Applied Materials Inc. The working group-level meeting between US, Japanese and Dutch officials took place last week on the sidelines of a summit in Japan, people familiar with the matter said.That comes in addition to early discussions in Washington about sanctions on specific Chinese companies, other people said. Some Trump officials also aim to further restrict the type of Nvidia Corp. chips that can be exported to China without a license, Bloomberg News has previously reported. They’re also having early conversations about tightening existing curbs on the quantity of AI chips that can be exported globally without a license, said some of the people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private.First off, I apologize that posts have come out late this week. I’ve been thinking aboutAI Promise and Chip Precariousnessfor a long time — we covered some of the themes onlast week’s Sharp Tech/Sharp China crossover episode— and I planned to write this Article on Monday. Well, that wasn’t happening, so I pivoted to an Update — which thus came out late! — and even though I gave myself an extra day to write the Article it still took longer than I expected to get it done. And now I’m wiped!This news item, though, is exactly why I wanted to write the Article that I did. My conclusions in that Article — particularly my call to end the chip ban (while cracking down on the sale of semiconductor manufacturing equipment) — is very high risk and potentially totally wrong, and that’s even before I get into some of the more far-fetched ideas to revive Intel. I understand if you disagree. What I think is important, however, is that people making this decision also appreciate that the alternative approach — the one detailed in this news item — isalsovery high risk and potentially totally wrong.To that end, I don’t have too much more to say that I didn’t say yesterday, other than to note I did give short shrift to the fact that these decisions are not the U.S.’s alone. This is particularly pertinent when it comes to semiconductor manufacturing equipment, much of which is made in the Netherlands and Japan. The logic of my argument, however, applies to those countries just as much as it does to the U.S.: everyone is reliant on Taiwan right now, except China (or at least to a much lower extent); I think that is a very dangerous place to be, since China’s interest in Taiwan is very great indeed.Google LLM Status CheckI only mentioned Google briefly in yesterday’s discussion about the state of LLMs, noting that they likely had a cost advantage in infrastructure. Indeed, Gemini is the cheapest option for a leading edge model, and has been for a while; it also remains the only model with a massive context window. Some users report that this doesn’t work that well, but I’ve talked to others who have had products unlocked by it; the broader point is that the most interesting and compelling aspect of Gemini does appear to be the API specifically, and its exclusivity to Google Cloud Platform generally.Meanwhile, from9to5Google:Google is informing iOS users that it will be removing Gemini support from the main Google app as it pushes users over to the full Gemini app. One of the first ways to access Gemini on iOS was through the main Google app, which offered a switcher between Google Search and Gemini for several months. However, as Google has built out the Gemini experience, new features have been missing from the Google app – a key example being Gemini Live. That’s because Google has been focused on the full Gemini app for iOS, which launched in November.Now, Google is letting iPhone and iPad users know that Gemini is “no longer available” in the Google app. In an email sent to users, Google says that “Gemini is no longer available in the Google app,” emphasizing that “Gemini is now available as its own app, and that’s now the best place to use Gemini.”This seems like an odd choice: millions if not billions of users already have the Google app installed, which means they also had Gemini installed; now Google wants them to download another app? This is like Meta’s approach to Snapchat — build a series of standalone apps that failed to gain traction, before finallyshoving Stories into Instagram— in reverse!The difference, of course, is that Stories was accretive to the Instagram business in the currency that mattered, which was attention; yes, Stories monetized worse than the Instagram feed in the beginning, but it caught up over time, and the dramatic expansion in inventory and, more importantly, lock-out of Snapchat to new users was worth it.AI chatbots, on the other hand, are likely disruptive to Google’s Search business. Sure,the company appears to be getting traction with AI Overviews, both in terms of user engagement as well as monetization, but Gemini doesn’t have any advertising, and it’s not clear how it would work if it did. Moreover, it conditions those millions or billions of users to use chatbots, which Google would probably prefer they didn’t. Indeed, you could make the case that putting Gemini in the Google Search app was reckless!Ethan Mollick, meanwhile, had a good observation about Google’s Deep Research, which launched in December before OpenAI’s version, but which is woefully inferior, at least in my testing:Google has all the pieces needed for the ultimate Deep Research product: the search engines, an incredible depth of researcher reasoning knowledge to train on, access to Google books & scholar, and a mix of top Flash & big models.Others would struggle to match. When, I wonder?— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025Mollick noted that this disappointment, unlike the Gemini item above, wasn’t necessarily a disruption issue:Also it seems like Deep Research would conflict less with Google ad revenue than search summaries. Research is likely to involve less topics that would lead to click-throughs on ads, and when it does (“which product to buy?”) there is a high value ad opportunity there.— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025I think all of these items, taken together, help explain where Google seems to be in terms of LLMs:First, Google’s core research remains excellent.Second, Google’s infrastructure is a big differentiator, particularly in a world of commoditized models.Third, Google is (rightly) worried about search disruption.Fourth, Google’s product capabilities are a bit of a mess.All of these combined explain why GCP is Google’s most important product line in terms of leveraging LLMs: Google’s core research and infrastructure provides differentiation, GCP actually provides more leverage on the costs undergirding Search without disrupting its business model, and GCP isn’t a consumer product. Googleis right to invest in it.Speaking of investment, Nvidia’s earnings are later today, and people seem to be on edge. I didn’t mention the brouhaha over the weekend aboutthat analyst report that said that Microsoft was canceling AI data center leases, in part because that seemed consistent withMicrosoft backing off from being OpenAI’s exclusive datacenter providerand a slowing rate of capex growth, which it announcedduring earnings. Data centers and power contracts have much longer lead times than GPUs; presumably Microsoft would have secured options on this capacity for OpenAI, and now it doesn’t need said capacity to the same extent. To that end, Microsoft released a statement on Monday stating that capex spending targets for the year remained at $80 billion.There’s not much more to say beyond that, at least until this afternoon. Microsoft did already build a lot of data centers, and they do still need to fill them with GPUs!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.09: Tough Decisions and TradeoffsDateFriday, February 28, 2025Google’s Tasty LemonadeDateWednesday, January 29, 2014AI Integration and ModularizationDateWednesday, May 29, 2024←AI Promise and Chip PrecariousnessAn Interview with Benedict Evans About AI Unknowns→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air More Chip Curbs?, Google LLM Status CheckWednesday, February 26, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Sharp Tech returned on Monday withan episodeabout Apple’s encryption fight with the U.K, and the potential for drone delivery.On to the Update:More Chip Curbs?FromBloomberg:Donald Trump’s administration is sketching out tougher versions of US semiconductor curbs and pressuring key allies to escalate their restrictions on China’s chip industry, an early indication the new US president plans to expand efforts that began under Joe Biden to limit Beijing’s technological prowess.Trump officials recently met with their Japanese and Dutch counterparts about restricting Tokyo Electron Ltd. and ASML Holding NV engineers from maintaining semiconductor gear in China, according to people familiar with the matter. The aim, which was also a priority for Biden, is to see key allies match China curbs the US has placed on American chip-gear companies, including Lam Research Corp., KLA Corp. and Applied Materials Inc. The working group-level meeting between US, Japanese and Dutch officials took place last week on the sidelines of a summit in Japan, people familiar with the matter said.That comes in addition to early discussions in Washington about sanctions on specific Chinese companies, other people said. Some Trump officials also aim to further restrict the type of Nvidia Corp. chips that can be exported to China without a license, Bloomberg News has previously reported. They’re also having early conversations about tightening existing curbs on the quantity of AI chips that can be exported globally without a license, said some of the people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private.First off, I apologize that posts have come out late this week. I’ve been thinking aboutAI Promise and Chip Precariousnessfor a long time — we covered some of the themes onlast week’s Sharp Tech/Sharp China crossover episode— and I planned to write this Article on Monday. Well, that wasn’t happening, so I pivoted to an Update — which thus came out late! — and even though I gave myself an extra day to write the Article it still took longer than I expected to get it done. And now I’m wiped!This news item, though, is exactly why I wanted to write the Article that I did. My conclusions in that Article — particularly my call to end the chip ban (while cracking down on the sale of semiconductor manufacturing equipment) — is very high risk and potentially totally wrong, and that’s even before I get into some of the more far-fetched ideas to revive Intel. I understand if you disagree. What I think is important, however, is that people making this decision also appreciate that the alternative approach — the one detailed in this news item — isalsovery high risk and potentially totally wrong.To that end, I don’t have too much more to say that I didn’t say yesterday, other than to note I did give short shrift to the fact that these decisions are not the U.S.’s alone. This is particularly pertinent when it comes to semiconductor manufacturing equipment, much of which is made in the Netherlands and Japan. The logic of my argument, however, applies to those countries just as much as it does to the U.S.: everyone is reliant on Taiwan right now, except China (or at least to a much lower extent); I think that is a very dangerous place to be, since China’s interest in Taiwan is very great indeed.Google LLM Status CheckI only mentioned Google briefly in yesterday’s discussion about the state of LLMs, noting that they likely had a cost advantage in infrastructure. Indeed, Gemini is the cheapest option for a leading edge model, and has been for a while; it also remains the only model with a massive context window. Some users report that this doesn’t work that well, but I’ve talked to others who have had products unlocked by it; the broader point is that the most interesting and compelling aspect of Gemini does appear to be the API specifically, and its exclusivity to Google Cloud Platform generally.Meanwhile, from9to5Google:Google is informing iOS users that it will be removing Gemini support from the main Google app as it pushes users over to the full Gemini app. One of the first ways to access Gemini on iOS was through the main Google app, which offered a switcher between Google Search and Gemini for several months. However, as Google has built out the Gemini experience, new features have been missing from the Google app – a key example being Gemini Live. That’s because Google has been focused on the full Gemini app for iOS, which launched in November.Now, Google is letting iPhone and iPad users know that Gemini is “no longer available” in the Google app. In an email sent to users, Google says that “Gemini is no longer available in the Google app,” emphasizing that “Gemini is now available as its own app, and that’s now the best place to use Gemini.”This seems like an odd choice: millions if not billions of users already have the Google app installed, which means they also had Gemini installed; now Google wants them to download another app? This is like Meta’s approach to Snapchat — build a series of standalone apps that failed to gain traction, before finallyshoving Stories into Instagram— in reverse!The difference, of course, is that Stories was accretive to the Instagram business in the currency that mattered, which was attention; yes, Stories monetized worse than the Instagram feed in the beginning, but it caught up over time, and the dramatic expansion in inventory and, more importantly, lock-out of Snapchat to new users was worth it.AI chatbots, on the other hand, are likely disruptive to Google’s Search business. Sure,the company appears to be getting traction with AI Overviews, both in terms of user engagement as well as monetization, but Gemini doesn’t have any advertising, and it’s not clear how it would work if it did. Moreover, it conditions those millions or billions of users to use chatbots, which Google would probably prefer they didn’t. Indeed, you could make the case that putting Gemini in the Google Search app was reckless!Ethan Mollick, meanwhile, had a good observation about Google’s Deep Research, which launched in December before OpenAI’s version, but which is woefully inferior, at least in my testing:Google has all the pieces needed for the ultimate Deep Research product: the search engines, an incredible depth of researcher reasoning knowledge to train on, access to Google books & scholar, and a mix of top Flash & big models.Others would struggle to match. When, I wonder?— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025Mollick noted that this disappointment, unlike the Gemini item above, wasn’t necessarily a disruption issue:Also it seems like Deep Research would conflict less with Google ad revenue than search summaries. Research is likely to involve less topics that would lead to click-throughs on ads, and when it does (“which product to buy?”) there is a high value ad opportunity there.— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025I think all of these items, taken together, help explain where Google seems to be in terms of LLMs:First, Google’s core research remains excellent.Second, Google’s infrastructure is a big differentiator, particularly in a world of commoditized models.Third, Google is (rightly) worried about search disruption.Fourth, Google’s product capabilities are a bit of a mess.All of these combined explain why GCP is Google’s most important product line in terms of leveraging LLMs: Google’s core research and infrastructure provides differentiation, GCP actually provides more leverage on the costs undergirding Search without disrupting its business model, and GCP isn’t a consumer product. Googleis right to invest in it.Speaking of investment, Nvidia’s earnings are later today, and people seem to be on edge. I didn’t mention the brouhaha over the weekend aboutthat analyst report that said that Microsoft was canceling AI data center leases, in part because that seemed consistent withMicrosoft backing off from being OpenAI’s exclusive datacenter providerand a slowing rate of capex growth, which it announcedduring earnings. Data centers and power contracts have much longer lead times than GPUs; presumably Microsoft would have secured options on this capacity for OpenAI, and now it doesn’t need said capacity to the same extent. To that end, Microsoft released a statement on Monday stating that capex spending targets for the year remained at $80 billion.There’s not much more to say beyond that, at least until this afternoon. Microsoft did already build a lot of data centers, and they do still need to fill them with GPUs!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.09: Tough Decisions and TradeoffsDateFriday, February 28, 2025Google’s Tasty LemonadeDateWednesday, January 29, 2014AI Integration and ModularizationDateWednesday, May 29, 2024←AI Promise and Chip PrecariousnessAn Interview with Benedict Evans About AI Unknowns→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All More Chip Curbs?, Google LLM Status CheckWednesday, February 26, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Sharp Tech returned on Monday withan episodeabout Apple’s encryption fight with the U.K, and the potential for drone delivery.On to the Update:More Chip Curbs?FromBloomberg:Donald Trump’s administration is sketching out tougher versions of US semiconductor curbs and pressuring key allies to escalate their restrictions on China’s chip industry, an early indication the new US president plans to expand efforts that began under Joe Biden to limit Beijing’s technological prowess.Trump officials recently met with their Japanese and Dutch counterparts about restricting Tokyo Electron Ltd. and ASML Holding NV engineers from maintaining semiconductor gear in China, according to people familiar with the matter. The aim, which was also a priority for Biden, is to see key allies match China curbs the US has placed on American chip-gear companies, including Lam Research Corp., KLA Corp. and Applied Materials Inc. The working group-level meeting between US, Japanese and Dutch officials took place last week on the sidelines of a summit in Japan, people familiar with the matter said.That comes in addition to early discussions in Washington about sanctions on specific Chinese companies, other people said. Some Trump officials also aim to further restrict the type of Nvidia Corp. chips that can be exported to China without a license, Bloomberg News has previously reported. They’re also having early conversations about tightening existing curbs on the quantity of AI chips that can be exported globally without a license, said some of the people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private.First off, I apologize that posts have come out late this week. I’ve been thinking aboutAI Promise and Chip Precariousnessfor a long time — we covered some of the themes onlast week’s Sharp Tech/Sharp China crossover episode— and I planned to write this Article on Monday. Well, that wasn’t happening, so I pivoted to an Update — which thus came out late! — and even though I gave myself an extra day to write the Article it still took longer than I expected to get it done. And now I’m wiped!This news item, though, is exactly why I wanted to write the Article that I did. My conclusions in that Article — particularly my call to end the chip ban (while cracking down on the sale of semiconductor manufacturing equipment) — is very high risk and potentially totally wrong, and that’s even before I get into some of the more far-fetched ideas to revive Intel. I understand if you disagree. What I think is important, however, is that people making this decision also appreciate that the alternative approach — the one detailed in this news item — isalsovery high risk and potentially totally wrong.To that end, I don’t have too much more to say that I didn’t say yesterday, other than to note I did give short shrift to the fact that these decisions are not the U.S.’s alone. This is particularly pertinent when it comes to semiconductor manufacturing equipment, much of which is made in the Netherlands and Japan. The logic of my argument, however, applies to those countries just as much as it does to the U.S.: everyone is reliant on Taiwan right now, except China (or at least to a much lower extent); I think that is a very dangerous place to be, since China’s interest in Taiwan is very great indeed.Google LLM Status CheckI only mentioned Google briefly in yesterday’s discussion about the state of LLMs, noting that they likely had a cost advantage in infrastructure. Indeed, Gemini is the cheapest option for a leading edge model, and has been for a while; it also remains the only model with a massive context window. Some users report that this doesn’t work that well, but I’ve talked to others who have had products unlocked by it; the broader point is that the most interesting and compelling aspect of Gemini does appear to be the API specifically, and its exclusivity to Google Cloud Platform generally.Meanwhile, from9to5Google:Google is informing iOS users that it will be removing Gemini support from the main Google app as it pushes users over to the full Gemini app. One of the first ways to access Gemini on iOS was through the main Google app, which offered a switcher between Google Search and Gemini for several months. However, as Google has built out the Gemini experience, new features have been missing from the Google app – a key example being Gemini Live. That’s because Google has been focused on the full Gemini app for iOS, which launched in November.Now, Google is letting iPhone and iPad users know that Gemini is “no longer available” in the Google app. In an email sent to users, Google says that “Gemini is no longer available in the Google app,” emphasizing that “Gemini is now available as its own app, and that’s now the best place to use Gemini.”This seems like an odd choice: millions if not billions of users already have the Google app installed, which means they also had Gemini installed; now Google wants them to download another app? This is like Meta’s approach to Snapchat — build a series of standalone apps that failed to gain traction, before finallyshoving Stories into Instagram— in reverse!The difference, of course, is that Stories was accretive to the Instagram business in the currency that mattered, which was attention; yes, Stories monetized worse than the Instagram feed in the beginning, but it caught up over time, and the dramatic expansion in inventory and, more importantly, lock-out of Snapchat to new users was worth it.AI chatbots, on the other hand, are likely disruptive to Google’s Search business. Sure,the company appears to be getting traction with AI Overviews, both in terms of user engagement as well as monetization, but Gemini doesn’t have any advertising, and it’s not clear how it would work if it did. Moreover, it conditions those millions or billions of users to use chatbots, which Google would probably prefer they didn’t. Indeed, you could make the case that putting Gemini in the Google Search app was reckless!Ethan Mollick, meanwhile, had a good observation about Google’s Deep Research, which launched in December before OpenAI’s version, but which is woefully inferior, at least in my testing:Google has all the pieces needed for the ultimate Deep Research product: the search engines, an incredible depth of researcher reasoning knowledge to train on, access to Google books & scholar, and a mix of top Flash & big models.Others would struggle to match. When, I wonder?— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025Mollick noted that this disappointment, unlike the Gemini item above, wasn’t necessarily a disruption issue:Also it seems like Deep Research would conflict less with Google ad revenue than search summaries. Research is likely to involve less topics that would lead to click-throughs on ads, and when it does (“which product to buy?”) there is a high value ad opportunity there.— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025I think all of these items, taken together, help explain where Google seems to be in terms of LLMs:First, Google’s core research remains excellent.Second, Google’s infrastructure is a big differentiator, particularly in a world of commoditized models.Third, Google is (rightly) worried about search disruption.Fourth, Google’s product capabilities are a bit of a mess.All of these combined explain why GCP is Google’s most important product line in terms of leveraging LLMs: Google’s core research and infrastructure provides differentiation, GCP actually provides more leverage on the costs undergirding Search without disrupting its business model, and GCP isn’t a consumer product. Googleis right to invest in it.Speaking of investment, Nvidia’s earnings are later today, and people seem to be on edge. I didn’t mention the brouhaha over the weekend aboutthat analyst report that said that Microsoft was canceling AI data center leases, in part because that seemed consistent withMicrosoft backing off from being OpenAI’s exclusive datacenter providerand a slowing rate of capex growth, which it announcedduring earnings. Data centers and power contracts have much longer lead times than GPUs; presumably Microsoft would have secured options on this capacity for OpenAI, and now it doesn’t need said capacity to the same extent. To that end, Microsoft released a statement on Monday stating that capex spending targets for the year remained at $80 billion.There’s not much more to say beyond that, at least until this afternoon. Microsoft did already build a lot of data centers, and they do still need to fill them with GPUs!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.09: Tough Decisions and TradeoffsDateFriday, February 28, 2025Google’s Tasty LemonadeDateWednesday, January 29, 2014AI Integration and ModularizationDateWednesday, May 29, 2024←AI Promise and Chip PrecariousnessAn Interview with Benedict Evans About AI Unknowns→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Sharp Tech returned on Monday withan episodeabout Apple’s encryption fight with the U.K, and the potential for drone delivery.On to the Update:More Chip Curbs?FromBloomberg:Donald Trump’s administration is sketching out tougher versions of US semiconductor curbs and pressuring key allies to escalate their restrictions on China’s chip industry, an early indication the new US president plans to expand efforts that began under Joe Biden to limit Beijing’s technological prowess.Trump officials recently met with their Japanese and Dutch counterparts about restricting Tokyo Electron Ltd. and ASML Holding NV engineers from maintaining semiconductor gear in China, according to people familiar with the matter. The aim, which was also a priority for Biden, is to see key allies match China curbs the US has placed on American chip-gear companies, including Lam Research Corp., KLA Corp. and Applied Materials Inc. The working group-level meeting between US, Japanese and Dutch officials took place last week on the sidelines of a summit in Japan, people familiar with the matter said.That comes in addition to early discussions in Washington about sanctions on specific Chinese companies, other people said. Some Trump officials also aim to further restrict the type of Nvidia Corp. chips that can be exported to China without a license, Bloomberg News has previously reported. They’re also having early conversations about tightening existing curbs on the quantity of AI chips that can be exported globally without a license, said some of the people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private.First off, I apologize that posts have come out late this week. I’ve been thinking aboutAI Promise and Chip Precariousnessfor a long time — we covered some of the themes onlast week’s Sharp Tech/Sharp China crossover episode— and I planned to write this Article on Monday. Well, that wasn’t happening, so I pivoted to an Update — which thus came out late! — and even though I gave myself an extra day to write the Article it still took longer than I expected to get it done. And now I’m wiped!This news item, though, is exactly why I wanted to write the Article that I did. My conclusions in that Article — particularly my call to end the chip ban (while cracking down on the sale of semiconductor manufacturing equipment) — is very high risk and potentially totally wrong, and that’s even before I get into some of the more far-fetched ideas to revive Intel. I understand if you disagree. What I think is important, however, is that people making this decision also appreciate that the alternative approach — the one detailed in this news item — isalsovery high risk and potentially totally wrong.To that end, I don’t have too much more to say that I didn’t say yesterday, other than to note I did give short shrift to the fact that these decisions are not the U.S.’s alone. This is particularly pertinent when it comes to semiconductor manufacturing equipment, much of which is made in the Netherlands and Japan. The logic of my argument, however, applies to those countries just as much as it does to the U.S.: everyone is reliant on Taiwan right now, except China (or at least to a much lower extent); I think that is a very dangerous place to be, since China’s interest in Taiwan is very great indeed.Google LLM Status CheckI only mentioned Google briefly in yesterday’s discussion about the state of LLMs, noting that they likely had a cost advantage in infrastructure. Indeed, Gemini is the cheapest option for a leading edge model, and has been for a while; it also remains the only model with a massive context window. Some users report that this doesn’t work that well, but I’ve talked to others who have had products unlocked by it; the broader point is that the most interesting and compelling aspect of Gemini does appear to be the API specifically, and its exclusivity to Google Cloud Platform generally.Meanwhile, from9to5Google:Google is informing iOS users that it will be removing Gemini support from the main Google app as it pushes users over to the full Gemini app. One of the first ways to access Gemini on iOS was through the main Google app, which offered a switcher between Google Search and Gemini for several months. However, as Google has built out the Gemini experience, new features have been missing from the Google app – a key example being Gemini Live. That’s because Google has been focused on the full Gemini app for iOS, which launched in November.Now, Google is letting iPhone and iPad users know that Gemini is “no longer available” in the Google app. In an email sent to users, Google says that “Gemini is no longer available in the Google app,” emphasizing that “Gemini is now available as its own app, and that’s now the best place to use Gemini.”This seems like an odd choice: millions if not billions of users already have the Google app installed, which means they also had Gemini installed; now Google wants them to download another app? This is like Meta’s approach to Snapchat — build a series of standalone apps that failed to gain traction, before finallyshoving Stories into Instagram— in reverse!The difference, of course, is that Stories was accretive to the Instagram business in the currency that mattered, which was attention; yes, Stories monetized worse than the Instagram feed in the beginning, but it caught up over time, and the dramatic expansion in inventory and, more importantly, lock-out of Snapchat to new users was worth it.AI chatbots, on the other hand, are likely disruptive to Google’s Search business. Sure,the company appears to be getting traction with AI Overviews, both in terms of user engagement as well as monetization, but Gemini doesn’t have any advertising, and it’s not clear how it would work if it did. Moreover, it conditions those millions or billions of users to use chatbots, which Google would probably prefer they didn’t. Indeed, you could make the case that putting Gemini in the Google Search app was reckless!Ethan Mollick, meanwhile, had a good observation about Google’s Deep Research, which launched in December before OpenAI’s version, but which is woefully inferior, at least in my testing:Google has all the pieces needed for the ultimate Deep Research product: the search engines, an incredible depth of researcher reasoning knowledge to train on, access to Google books & scholar, and a mix of top Flash & big models.Others would struggle to match. When, I wonder?— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025Mollick noted that this disappointment, unlike the Gemini item above, wasn’t necessarily a disruption issue:Also it seems like Deep Research would conflict less with Google ad revenue than search summaries. Research is likely to involve less topics that would lead to click-throughs on ads, and when it does (“which product to buy?”) there is a high value ad opportunity there.— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025I think all of these items, taken together, help explain where Google seems to be in terms of LLMs:First, Google’s core research remains excellent.Second, Google’s infrastructure is a big differentiator, particularly in a world of commoditized models.Third, Google is (rightly) worried about search disruption.Fourth, Google’s product capabilities are a bit of a mess.All of these combined explain why GCP is Google’s most important product line in terms of leveraging LLMs: Google’s core research and infrastructure provides differentiation, GCP actually provides more leverage on the costs undergirding Search without disrupting its business model, and GCP isn’t a consumer product. Googleis right to invest in it.Speaking of investment, Nvidia’s earnings are later today, and people seem to be on edge. I didn’t mention the brouhaha over the weekend aboutthat analyst report that said that Microsoft was canceling AI data center leases, in part because that seemed consistent withMicrosoft backing off from being OpenAI’s exclusive datacenter providerand a slowing rate of capex growth, which it announcedduring earnings. Data centers and power contracts have much longer lead times than GPUs; presumably Microsoft would have secured options on this capacity for OpenAI, and now it doesn’t need said capacity to the same extent. To that end, Microsoft released a statement on Monday stating that capex spending targets for the year remained at $80 billion.There’s not much more to say beyond that, at least until this afternoon. Microsoft did already build a lot of data centers, and they do still need to fill them with GPUs!This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Donald Trump’s administration is sketching out tougher versions of US semiconductor curbs and pressuring key allies to escalate their restrictions on China’s chip industry, an early indication the new US president plans to expand efforts that began under Joe Biden to limit Beijing’s technological prowess. Trump officials recently met with their Japanese and Dutch counterparts about restricting Tokyo Electron Ltd. and ASML Holding NV engineers from maintaining semiconductor gear in China, according to people familiar with the matter. The aim, which was also a priority for Biden, is to see key allies match China curbs the US has placed on American chip-gear companies, including Lam Research Corp., KLA Corp. and Applied Materials Inc. The working group-level meeting between US, Japanese and Dutch officials took place last week on the sidelines of a summit in Japan, people familiar with the matter said. That comes in addition to early discussions in Washington about sanctions on specific Chinese companies, other people said. Some Trump officials also aim to further restrict the type of Nvidia Corp. chips that can be exported to China without a license, Bloomberg News has previously reported. They’re also having early conversations about tightening existing curbs on the quantity of AI chips that can be exported globally without a license, said some of the people, who asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private. First off, I apologize that posts have come out late this week. I’ve been thinking aboutAI Promise and Chip Precariousnessfor a long time — we covered some of the themes onlast week’s Sharp Tech/Sharp China crossover episode— and I planned to write this Article on Monday. Well, that wasn’t happening, so I pivoted to an Update — which thus came out late! — and even though I gave myself an extra day to write the Article it still took longer than I expected to get it done. And now I’m wiped! This news item, though, is exactly why I wanted to write the Article that I did. My conclusions in that Article — particularly my call to end the chip ban (while cracking down on the sale of semiconductor manufacturing equipment) — is very high risk and potentially totally wrong, and that’s even before I get into some of the more far-fetched ideas to revive Intel. I understand if you disagree. What I think is important, however, is that people making this decision also appreciate that the alternative approach — the one detailed in this news item — isalsovery high risk and potentially totally wrong. To that end, I don’t have too much more to say that I didn’t say yesterday, other than to note I did give short shrift to the fact that these decisions are not the U.S.’s alone. This is particularly pertinent when it comes to semiconductor manufacturing equipment, much of which is made in the Netherlands and Japan. The logic of my argument, however, applies to those countries just as much as it does to the U.S.: everyone is reliant on Taiwan right now, except China (or at least to a much lower extent); I think that is a very dangerous place to be, since China’s interest in Taiwan is very great indeed. I only mentioned Google briefly in yesterday’s discussion about the state of LLMs, noting that they likely had a cost advantage in infrastructure. Indeed, Gemini is the cheapest option for a leading edge model, and has been for a while; it also remains the only model with a massive context window. Some users report that this doesn’t work that well, but I’ve talked to others who have had products unlocked by it; the broader point is that the most interesting and compelling aspect of Gemini does appear to be the API specifically, and its exclusivity to Google Cloud Platform generally. Google is informing iOS users that it will be removing Gemini support from the main Google app as it pushes users over to the full Gemini app. One of the first ways to access Gemini on iOS was through the main Google app, which offered a switcher between Google Search and Gemini for several months. However, as Google has built out the Gemini experience, new features have been missing from the Google app – a key example being Gemini Live. That’s because Google has been focused on the full Gemini app for iOS, which launched in November. Now, Google is letting iPhone and iPad users know that Gemini is “no longer available” in the Google app. In an email sent to users, Google says that “Gemini is no longer available in the Google app,” emphasizing that “Gemini is now available as its own app, and that’s now the best place to use Gemini.” This seems like an odd choice: millions if not billions of users already have the Google app installed, which means they also had Gemini installed; now Google wants them to download another app? This is like Meta’s approach to Snapchat — build a series of standalone apps that failed to gain traction, before finallyshoving Stories into Instagram— in reverse! The difference, of course, is that Stories was accretive to the Instagram business in the currency that mattered, which was attention; yes, Stories monetized worse than the Instagram feed in the beginning, but it caught up over time, and the dramatic expansion in inventory and, more importantly, lock-out of Snapchat to new users was worth it. AI chatbots, on the other hand, are likely disruptive to Google’s Search business. Sure,the company appears to be getting traction with AI Overviews, both in terms of user engagement as well as monetization, but Gemini doesn’t have any advertising, and it’s not clear how it would work if it did. Moreover, it conditions those millions or billions of users to use chatbots, which Google would probably prefer they didn’t. Indeed, you could make the case that putting Gemini in the Google Search app was reckless! Google has all the pieces needed for the ultimate Deep Research product: the search engines, an incredible depth of researcher reasoning knowledge to train on, access to Google books & scholar, and a mix of top Flash & big models.Others would struggle to match. When, I wonder?— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025 Google has all the pieces needed for the ultimate Deep Research product: the search engines, an incredible depth of researcher reasoning knowledge to train on, access to Google books & scholar, and a mix of top Flash & big models.Others would struggle to match. When, I wonder? Also it seems like Deep Research would conflict less with Google ad revenue than search summaries. Research is likely to involve less topics that would lead to click-throughs on ads, and when it does (“which product to buy?”) there is a high value ad opportunity there.— Ethan Mollick (@emollick)February 26, 2025 Also it seems like Deep Research would conflict less with Google ad revenue than search summaries. Research is likely to involve less topics that would lead to click-throughs on ads, and when it does (“which product to buy?”) there is a high value ad opportunity there. All of these combined explain why GCP is Google’s most important product line in terms of leveraging LLMs: Google’s core research and infrastructure provides differentiation, GCP actually provides more leverage on the costs undergirding Search without disrupting its business model, and GCP isn’t a consumer product. Googleis right to invest in it. Speaking of investment, Nvidia’s earnings are later today, and people seem to be on edge. I didn’t mention the brouhaha over the weekend aboutthat analyst report that said that Microsoft was canceling AI data center leases, in part because that seemed consistent withMicrosoft backing off from being OpenAI’s exclusive datacenter providerand a slowing rate of capex growth, which it announcedduring earnings. Data centers and power contracts have much longer lead times than GPUs; presumably Microsoft would have secured options on this capacity for OpenAI, and now it doesn’t need said capacity to the same extent. To that end, Microsoft released a statement on Monday stating that capex spending targets for the year remained at $80 billion. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025