# [PODCAST] Google Earnings, YouTube and Brand Advertising, Network and the Web's AI Problem

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/google-earnings-youtube-and-brand-advertising-network-and-the-webs-ai-problem/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.LsAftLEfvFLNU1l1Kh6GfwZ4_fVzA1c8no28Csxd0W-F__hmtWeFe7cL64NZfFd2urfB3eKZgnS4C3TE80GYhRR_-lZG8-iG0tO9CxUq8cM4dxxR7JiPH_b77dZLFDu5irHvSPpqnxgZvsSVc7q3Wzs-mBU2nGylj5CKMksZfxX4HOP2RnHgBY3LU3vPHNPlFwq5v57C3E0Xb_XkOjjfpw8vhrzIPujrm1YMXAZ_88ZpZa54QpbsnTPou1czMGzXZ26sJGja6vBy0UZzkzq0MUbElqD_B4WZAKx-O1Uz8SwRBRE-Wmj3M6lYS8gn-VReS3VvpFAjaNf8njTFh8A0NQ
**Atlas ID**: 229722
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.955800

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirGoogle Earnings, YouTube and Brand Advertising, Network and the Web’s AI ProblemMonday, July 29, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast week’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed Llama 3.1 and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s argument in favor of open source (weights) models, Crowdstrike, and Netflix’s shifting approach to ads.On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s advertising sales growth slowed in the second quarter, putting a damper on parent Alphabet’s primary revenue engine as it pours more money into artificial intelligence investments. Alphabet reported that its Google division generated $64.6 billion in ad sales from April to June, an increase of 11.1% from the same period last year. That represented a slowdown from the previous quarter, when ad sales rose 13% year-over-year. Shares in Alphabet were down 1.4% during after-hours trading after Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat indicated third-quarter operating margins would be crimped by investments in technical infrastructure and the cost of launching new hardware products, such as the Pixel phone.Google’s earnings have been a bit of a roller coast this year: the stock dropped around 7 percent after the company reported Q4 2023 earnings in late January, and jumped around 10 percent after first quarter results in April; this time the stock is down about 9 percent since the day before earnings, while still being up 21% on the year. These are pretty big swings for such an established company, but I suspect they speak to the uncertainty investors have about the long-term impact of AI on Search.To that end,I argued in Januarythat there really wasn’t much evidence for investor concern about search:First off, search revenue is not in nearly the doldrums it was a year ago (some of which, to be fair, was a matter of difficult COVID comps). What has happened is that the recovery in growth that seemed to be happening the last few quarters from last year’s nadir has slowed. This does not mean that things like AI — to take the chief worry about Google search, both in terms of customers using alternatives to search and also cannibalizing the search experience itself — are or are not having an effect; the only thing one can be sure about is that it does not appear to be helping. That, frankly, is as far as I’m willing to go: there simply isn’t enough data or commentary from management to say more than that about a subject so fraught.I think that is still the case, particularly when you look at Google Search revenue in isolation (technically all of Google Sites revenue ex-YouTube):One of the big challenges here is that Google only started breaking out YouTube revenue in Q4 2019, and then COVID hit in 2020; this means it is difficult to know exactly what is a “normal” Google Sites ex-YouTube growth rate. That, though, argues in favor of Search doing well: this quarter’s flat year-over-year growth is over a tougher comp than the last couple of quarters. In fact, if you look at the two-year-over-two-year growth rates, Search was up 19% this quarter, compared to 17% in Q1 and 11% in Q4 2023.YouTube and Brand AdvertisingThe YouTube slowdown in growth is potentially more concerning, but that has its own countervailing factors: the other thing that happened in 2021 was Apple’s App Tracking Transparency, which impacted YouTube much more than Search (indeed,it probably helped Search). To that end, it was the year-ago quarter that suggested that Google, like Meta before them, had figured out how to restart direct response growth in a post-ATT world. Frommy Update about Google’s earnings last July:I’ve been tracking YouTube’s post-App Tracking Transparency slump for over a year now; that timing is notable, becausesaid slump started in Q1 2022; it was concerning thatYouTube was still down last quarter, given that comp was to the first quarter impacted by ATT, and it is encouraging that the streaming service has returned to growth, even if its relative to another declining quarter. What is interesting is that the primary driver was brand advertising: how much of YouTube’s strength is due to the implosion of linear TV as opposed to Google finally figuring out direct response advertising in a post-ATT world?In short, the YouTube story is basically a tough comp. Meanwhile, that last sentence is still an open question: YouTube’s growth was still driven more by brand than direct response; Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler saidon the earnings call:CTV [Connected TV] on YouTube is continuing to benefit from a combination of strong watch time growth, viewer and advertiser innovation and a shift in brand advertising budgets from linear TV to YouTube. Our largest advertisers across verticals, including retail, entertainment, telco and home and personal care, are partnering with creators on ads and organic integrations.Notice those categories: I wrote about them in 2016 inTV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall:Notice that the vast majority of the industries on on this list are dominated by massive companies that compete on scale and distribution. CPG is the perfect example: building a “house of brands” allows a company like Procter & Gamble to target demographic groups even as they leverage scale to invest in R&D, bring down the cost of products, and most importantly, dominate the distribution channel (i.e. retail shelf space). Said retailers, meanwhile, are huge in their own right, not only so they can match their massive suppliers at the bargaining table but also so they can scale logistics, inventory management, store development, etc. Automobile companies, meanwhile, are not unlike CPG companies: they operate a “house of brands” to serve different demographics while benefitting from scale in production and distribution; the primary difference is that they make money through one large purchase instead of over many smaller purchases over time.Similar principles apply to the other companies on this list: all are looking to reach as many consumers as possible with blunt targeting at best, all benefit from scale, and all are looking to earn significant lifetime value from consumers. And, along those lines, all can afford the expense of TV. In fact, the top 200 advertisers in the U.S. love TV so much that they make up 80% of television advertising, despite accounting for only 51% of total advertising (and 41% of digital).One way to think about what is happening with YouTube specifically and advertising more broadly is that we are (finally) in the “Inevitable Fall” period of TV advertising, at least as far as linear TV advertising is concerned; YouTube is benefiting, and all of the streaming services ad-based plans are potential beneficiaries as well. The great irony here is that this is an unexpected benefit of linear TV’s self-immolation; it was Matthew Ballin a 2023 Stratechery Interviewthat laid this self-immolation out:I like to talk about the fact that pay-TV has gone through three waves and the last one is not one you can reverse, even though you see Paramount and Warner and Disney talking about the importance of linear profits.I talk about the first phase being roughly 2000 to maybe 2012. This was a period of time in which pay-TV was consistently getting better, it was getting much better. You had more programming, more RSNs, better programming, “Mad Men”, “Breaking Bad”, “Game of Thrones”. The problem is it was becoming a little bit too expensive for the average American. This is your overserving problem, and at the same time you had Netflix and Hulu coming up.Phase two runs from 2012 to 2018 and contrary to popular belief, pay-TV kept getting better. You still had more RSNs, you had peak TV happening. The problem is you were exacerbating that same trend while you were simultaneously having original content start at the streaming services. But to rebut that, you also had the emergence of vMVPDs. In some regards, TV’s still getting better but you’re going to pay less. So, the first is it keeps getting better but it’s getting too expensive. The second is there’s now original content which sits outside of pay-TV, but pay-TV is still getting better and now it’s finally getting cheaper…But then phase three is unique. For the first time in pay-TV’s history, it got worse and that’s important. The price kept going up. Virtual MVPDs started jacking their rates up $10, $15 in a year, but for the first time content started getting harvested out. You had Paramount or at the time CBS say actually the sequel to “The Good Wife”, that’s only going to be on CBS All Access. You had Disney say we’re going to greenlight “The Mandalorian” and the Marvel series. That’s not going to go into linear, it’s only going to be on streaming. We had Paramount Global say actually “1923” that was going to debut on linear, now we’re going to put it on streaming. This kept happening. And in fact, just last year you had Disney take the 36th season of “Dancing with the Stars”, a show that had been on ABC, the broadcast network, for nearly 20 years, and they said it’s only going to be on Disney Plus. And so for the first time, if you take a look over the last eighteen months, pay-TV penetration has imploded, because the product has gotten worse. For Peacock, NBCUniversal basically said, “Every high-quality show that we have in development for our broadcast network or our cable networks like USA isn’t even going to start there.” FX in 2019 announced that they were going to double their original programming hours. Then in 2020, Disney said, “Actually FX on Hulu is going to get half of that, it’s never going to show up on FX”. And by the way, everything that does appear on FX is going to be on Hulu twelve hours later with or without ads. There’s kind of no turning that around.I wrote “TV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall” in 2016, and my thesis was that linear TV and linear TV advertisers would collapse together, as the former was outcompeted by online entertainment (including streaming), and the latter faced challenges from direct-to-consumer niche-focused competitors that were better able to leverage direct response advertising. Ball’s phase three, though, meant that TV actually self-destructed more quickly than TV-focused advertisers came under pressure; moreover, the relative strength of the latter was enhanced by things like ATT that increased the cost of direct response advertising (above-and-beyond the increased ability of Meta and Google totake the profits of direct-to-consumer competitors).The end result is that there are still a lot of brand advertising dollars out there looking for places other than linear to spend, and the easiest places to spend is connected TV.Network and the Web’s AI ProblemThat leaves the real change in Google’s business: Google Network, which includes AdMob (for in-app advertising), AdSense (for Google ads on websites), and Ad Manager (for placing ads from multiple networks, including AdSense, across multiple websites). Network has been growing more slowly than Google Sites (including YouTube) revenue for years, but as the chart above shows, there was a definite inflection point in 2023: Search and YouTube returned to increasing growth after the COVID and ATT slowdowns, while Network started to outright decline, including a significant drop this quarter.Network doesn’t get much attention in management commentary or analyst questions, probably because it’s been written off as a shrinking portion of Google’s revenue for years. I think, though, the timings of the shifts in the chart above give us some clues about what is happening.The first factor is ATT. While I have primarily focused on the impact of ATT on YouTube, particularly the way in which the connection between ads on YouTube and conversions on 3rd-party websites and apps was severed, the impact on Network should have been even greater, given that not just conversions but also ads are placed on 3rd-party properties. I think that this is the most likely explanation for why Network revenue growth rates stopped tracking Search and YouTube.The second factor is where I do think we are starting to see the impact of Search Generative Experiences (SGE) i.e. Google’s AI-generated search results. Google turned on SGE for everyone halfway through last quarter, which is probably why Network revenue accelerated its decline from -1% year-over-year in Q1 to -5% year-over-year in Q2; if this thesis is correct than the decline should be even higher this quarter.Keep in mind that two of the arguments as to why generative AI won’t hurt Google Search too badly is that (1) most searches are non-commercial in nature and (2) Google can figure out how to incorporate ads into generative search results. Notice, though, that neither of these alleviate the pain for 3rd-party websites: those “non-commercial” searches used to drive people to websites with display ads, while ads in generative results will compete with whatever links SGE does offer users to go elsewhere. In short, Google Search may be ok in the age of AI, at least for now, but there is starting to be real evidence that websites will suffer.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 20242025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Llama 3.1; Zuckerberg on Open Source AI; Kamala Harris, Europe, and Tech InnovationReddit’s Robots.txt, The Reddit Perspective, Google Contracts→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Google Earnings, YouTube and Brand Advertising, Network and the Web’s AI ProblemMonday, July 29, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast week’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed Llama 3.1 and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s argument in favor of open source (weights) models, Crowdstrike, and Netflix’s shifting approach to ads.On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s advertising sales growth slowed in the second quarter, putting a damper on parent Alphabet’s primary revenue engine as it pours more money into artificial intelligence investments. Alphabet reported that its Google division generated $64.6 billion in ad sales from April to June, an increase of 11.1% from the same period last year. That represented a slowdown from the previous quarter, when ad sales rose 13% year-over-year. Shares in Alphabet were down 1.4% during after-hours trading after Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat indicated third-quarter operating margins would be crimped by investments in technical infrastructure and the cost of launching new hardware products, such as the Pixel phone.Google’s earnings have been a bit of a roller coast this year: the stock dropped around 7 percent after the company reported Q4 2023 earnings in late January, and jumped around 10 percent after first quarter results in April; this time the stock is down about 9 percent since the day before earnings, while still being up 21% on the year. These are pretty big swings for such an established company, but I suspect they speak to the uncertainty investors have about the long-term impact of AI on Search.To that end,I argued in Januarythat there really wasn’t much evidence for investor concern about search:First off, search revenue is not in nearly the doldrums it was a year ago (some of which, to be fair, was a matter of difficult COVID comps). What has happened is that the recovery in growth that seemed to be happening the last few quarters from last year’s nadir has slowed. This does not mean that things like AI — to take the chief worry about Google search, both in terms of customers using alternatives to search and also cannibalizing the search experience itself — are or are not having an effect; the only thing one can be sure about is that it does not appear to be helping. That, frankly, is as far as I’m willing to go: there simply isn’t enough data or commentary from management to say more than that about a subject so fraught.I think that is still the case, particularly when you look at Google Search revenue in isolation (technically all of Google Sites revenue ex-YouTube):One of the big challenges here is that Google only started breaking out YouTube revenue in Q4 2019, and then COVID hit in 2020; this means it is difficult to know exactly what is a “normal” Google Sites ex-YouTube growth rate. That, though, argues in favor of Search doing well: this quarter’s flat year-over-year growth is over a tougher comp than the last couple of quarters. In fact, if you look at the two-year-over-two-year growth rates, Search was up 19% this quarter, compared to 17% in Q1 and 11% in Q4 2023.YouTube and Brand AdvertisingThe YouTube slowdown in growth is potentially more concerning, but that has its own countervailing factors: the other thing that happened in 2021 was Apple’s App Tracking Transparency, which impacted YouTube much more than Search (indeed,it probably helped Search). To that end, it was the year-ago quarter that suggested that Google, like Meta before them, had figured out how to restart direct response growth in a post-ATT world. Frommy Update about Google’s earnings last July:I’ve been tracking YouTube’s post-App Tracking Transparency slump for over a year now; that timing is notable, becausesaid slump started in Q1 2022; it was concerning thatYouTube was still down last quarter, given that comp was to the first quarter impacted by ATT, and it is encouraging that the streaming service has returned to growth, even if its relative to another declining quarter. What is interesting is that the primary driver was brand advertising: how much of YouTube’s strength is due to the implosion of linear TV as opposed to Google finally figuring out direct response advertising in a post-ATT world?In short, the YouTube story is basically a tough comp. Meanwhile, that last sentence is still an open question: YouTube’s growth was still driven more by brand than direct response; Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler saidon the earnings call:CTV [Connected TV] on YouTube is continuing to benefit from a combination of strong watch time growth, viewer and advertiser innovation and a shift in brand advertising budgets from linear TV to YouTube. Our largest advertisers across verticals, including retail, entertainment, telco and home and personal care, are partnering with creators on ads and organic integrations.Notice those categories: I wrote about them in 2016 inTV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall:Notice that the vast majority of the industries on on this list are dominated by massive companies that compete on scale and distribution. CPG is the perfect example: building a “house of brands” allows a company like Procter & Gamble to target demographic groups even as they leverage scale to invest in R&D, bring down the cost of products, and most importantly, dominate the distribution channel (i.e. retail shelf space). Said retailers, meanwhile, are huge in their own right, not only so they can match their massive suppliers at the bargaining table but also so they can scale logistics, inventory management, store development, etc. Automobile companies, meanwhile, are not unlike CPG companies: they operate a “house of brands” to serve different demographics while benefitting from scale in production and distribution; the primary difference is that they make money through one large purchase instead of over many smaller purchases over time.Similar principles apply to the other companies on this list: all are looking to reach as many consumers as possible with blunt targeting at best, all benefit from scale, and all are looking to earn significant lifetime value from consumers. And, along those lines, all can afford the expense of TV. In fact, the top 200 advertisers in the U.S. love TV so much that they make up 80% of television advertising, despite accounting for only 51% of total advertising (and 41% of digital).One way to think about what is happening with YouTube specifically and advertising more broadly is that we are (finally) in the “Inevitable Fall” period of TV advertising, at least as far as linear TV advertising is concerned; YouTube is benefiting, and all of the streaming services ad-based plans are potential beneficiaries as well. The great irony here is that this is an unexpected benefit of linear TV’s self-immolation; it was Matthew Ballin a 2023 Stratechery Interviewthat laid this self-immolation out:I like to talk about the fact that pay-TV has gone through three waves and the last one is not one you can reverse, even though you see Paramount and Warner and Disney talking about the importance of linear profits.I talk about the first phase being roughly 2000 to maybe 2012. This was a period of time in which pay-TV was consistently getting better, it was getting much better. You had more programming, more RSNs, better programming, “Mad Men”, “Breaking Bad”, “Game of Thrones”. The problem is it was becoming a little bit too expensive for the average American. This is your overserving problem, and at the same time you had Netflix and Hulu coming up.Phase two runs from 2012 to 2018 and contrary to popular belief, pay-TV kept getting better. You still had more RSNs, you had peak TV happening. The problem is you were exacerbating that same trend while you were simultaneously having original content start at the streaming services. But to rebut that, you also had the emergence of vMVPDs. In some regards, TV’s still getting better but you’re going to pay less. So, the first is it keeps getting better but it’s getting too expensive. The second is there’s now original content which sits outside of pay-TV, but pay-TV is still getting better and now it’s finally getting cheaper…But then phase three is unique. For the first time in pay-TV’s history, it got worse and that’s important. The price kept going up. Virtual MVPDs started jacking their rates up $10, $15 in a year, but for the first time content started getting harvested out. You had Paramount or at the time CBS say actually the sequel to “The Good Wife”, that’s only going to be on CBS All Access. You had Disney say we’re going to greenlight “The Mandalorian” and the Marvel series. That’s not going to go into linear, it’s only going to be on streaming. We had Paramount Global say actually “1923” that was going to debut on linear, now we’re going to put it on streaming. This kept happening. And in fact, just last year you had Disney take the 36th season of “Dancing with the Stars”, a show that had been on ABC, the broadcast network, for nearly 20 years, and they said it’s only going to be on Disney Plus. And so for the first time, if you take a look over the last eighteen months, pay-TV penetration has imploded, because the product has gotten worse. For Peacock, NBCUniversal basically said, “Every high-quality show that we have in development for our broadcast network or our cable networks like USA isn’t even going to start there.” FX in 2019 announced that they were going to double their original programming hours. Then in 2020, Disney said, “Actually FX on Hulu is going to get half of that, it’s never going to show up on FX”. And by the way, everything that does appear on FX is going to be on Hulu twelve hours later with or without ads. There’s kind of no turning that around.I wrote “TV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall” in 2016, and my thesis was that linear TV and linear TV advertisers would collapse together, as the former was outcompeted by online entertainment (including streaming), and the latter faced challenges from direct-to-consumer niche-focused competitors that were better able to leverage direct response advertising. Ball’s phase three, though, meant that TV actually self-destructed more quickly than TV-focused advertisers came under pressure; moreover, the relative strength of the latter was enhanced by things like ATT that increased the cost of direct response advertising (above-and-beyond the increased ability of Meta and Google totake the profits of direct-to-consumer competitors).The end result is that there are still a lot of brand advertising dollars out there looking for places other than linear to spend, and the easiest places to spend is connected TV.Network and the Web’s AI ProblemThat leaves the real change in Google’s business: Google Network, which includes AdMob (for in-app advertising), AdSense (for Google ads on websites), and Ad Manager (for placing ads from multiple networks, including AdSense, across multiple websites). Network has been growing more slowly than Google Sites (including YouTube) revenue for years, but as the chart above shows, there was a definite inflection point in 2023: Search and YouTube returned to increasing growth after the COVID and ATT slowdowns, while Network started to outright decline, including a significant drop this quarter.Network doesn’t get much attention in management commentary or analyst questions, probably because it’s been written off as a shrinking portion of Google’s revenue for years. I think, though, the timings of the shifts in the chart above give us some clues about what is happening.The first factor is ATT. While I have primarily focused on the impact of ATT on YouTube, particularly the way in which the connection between ads on YouTube and conversions on 3rd-party websites and apps was severed, the impact on Network should have been even greater, given that not just conversions but also ads are placed on 3rd-party properties. I think that this is the most likely explanation for why Network revenue growth rates stopped tracking Search and YouTube.The second factor is where I do think we are starting to see the impact of Search Generative Experiences (SGE) i.e. Google’s AI-generated search results. Google turned on SGE for everyone halfway through last quarter, which is probably why Network revenue accelerated its decline from -1% year-over-year in Q1 to -5% year-over-year in Q2; if this thesis is correct than the decline should be even higher this quarter.Keep in mind that two of the arguments as to why generative AI won’t hurt Google Search too badly is that (1) most searches are non-commercial in nature and (2) Google can figure out how to incorporate ads into generative search results. Notice, though, that neither of these alleviate the pain for 3rd-party websites: those “non-commercial” searches used to drive people to websites with display ads, while ads in generative results will compete with whatever links SGE does offer users to go elsewhere. In short, Google Search may be ok in the age of AI, at least for now, but there is starting to be real evidence that websites will suffer.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 20242025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Llama 3.1; Zuckerberg on Open Source AI; Kamala Harris, Europe, and Tech InnovationReddit’s Robots.txt, The Reddit Perspective, Google Contracts→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Google Earnings, YouTube and Brand Advertising, Network and the Web’s AI ProblemMonday, July 29, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast week’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed Llama 3.1 and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s argument in favor of open source (weights) models, Crowdstrike, and Netflix’s shifting approach to ads.On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s advertising sales growth slowed in the second quarter, putting a damper on parent Alphabet’s primary revenue engine as it pours more money into artificial intelligence investments. Alphabet reported that its Google division generated $64.6 billion in ad sales from April to June, an increase of 11.1% from the same period last year. That represented a slowdown from the previous quarter, when ad sales rose 13% year-over-year. Shares in Alphabet were down 1.4% during after-hours trading after Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat indicated third-quarter operating margins would be crimped by investments in technical infrastructure and the cost of launching new hardware products, such as the Pixel phone.Google’s earnings have been a bit of a roller coast this year: the stock dropped around 7 percent after the company reported Q4 2023 earnings in late January, and jumped around 10 percent after first quarter results in April; this time the stock is down about 9 percent since the day before earnings, while still being up 21% on the year. These are pretty big swings for such an established company, but I suspect they speak to the uncertainty investors have about the long-term impact of AI on Search.To that end,I argued in Januarythat there really wasn’t much evidence for investor concern about search:First off, search revenue is not in nearly the doldrums it was a year ago (some of which, to be fair, was a matter of difficult COVID comps). What has happened is that the recovery in growth that seemed to be happening the last few quarters from last year’s nadir has slowed. This does not mean that things like AI — to take the chief worry about Google search, both in terms of customers using alternatives to search and also cannibalizing the search experience itself — are or are not having an effect; the only thing one can be sure about is that it does not appear to be helping. That, frankly, is as far as I’m willing to go: there simply isn’t enough data or commentary from management to say more than that about a subject so fraught.I think that is still the case, particularly when you look at Google Search revenue in isolation (technically all of Google Sites revenue ex-YouTube):One of the big challenges here is that Google only started breaking out YouTube revenue in Q4 2019, and then COVID hit in 2020; this means it is difficult to know exactly what is a “normal” Google Sites ex-YouTube growth rate. That, though, argues in favor of Search doing well: this quarter’s flat year-over-year growth is over a tougher comp than the last couple of quarters. In fact, if you look at the two-year-over-two-year growth rates, Search was up 19% this quarter, compared to 17% in Q1 and 11% in Q4 2023.YouTube and Brand AdvertisingThe YouTube slowdown in growth is potentially more concerning, but that has its own countervailing factors: the other thing that happened in 2021 was Apple’s App Tracking Transparency, which impacted YouTube much more than Search (indeed,it probably helped Search). To that end, it was the year-ago quarter that suggested that Google, like Meta before them, had figured out how to restart direct response growth in a post-ATT world. Frommy Update about Google’s earnings last July:I’ve been tracking YouTube’s post-App Tracking Transparency slump for over a year now; that timing is notable, becausesaid slump started in Q1 2022; it was concerning thatYouTube was still down last quarter, given that comp was to the first quarter impacted by ATT, and it is encouraging that the streaming service has returned to growth, even if its relative to another declining quarter. What is interesting is that the primary driver was brand advertising: how much of YouTube’s strength is due to the implosion of linear TV as opposed to Google finally figuring out direct response advertising in a post-ATT world?In short, the YouTube story is basically a tough comp. Meanwhile, that last sentence is still an open question: YouTube’s growth was still driven more by brand than direct response; Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler saidon the earnings call:CTV [Connected TV] on YouTube is continuing to benefit from a combination of strong watch time growth, viewer and advertiser innovation and a shift in brand advertising budgets from linear TV to YouTube. Our largest advertisers across verticals, including retail, entertainment, telco and home and personal care, are partnering with creators on ads and organic integrations.Notice those categories: I wrote about them in 2016 inTV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall:Notice that the vast majority of the industries on on this list are dominated by massive companies that compete on scale and distribution. CPG is the perfect example: building a “house of brands” allows a company like Procter & Gamble to target demographic groups even as they leverage scale to invest in R&D, bring down the cost of products, and most importantly, dominate the distribution channel (i.e. retail shelf space). Said retailers, meanwhile, are huge in their own right, not only so they can match their massive suppliers at the bargaining table but also so they can scale logistics, inventory management, store development, etc. Automobile companies, meanwhile, are not unlike CPG companies: they operate a “house of brands” to serve different demographics while benefitting from scale in production and distribution; the primary difference is that they make money through one large purchase instead of over many smaller purchases over time.Similar principles apply to the other companies on this list: all are looking to reach as many consumers as possible with blunt targeting at best, all benefit from scale, and all are looking to earn significant lifetime value from consumers. And, along those lines, all can afford the expense of TV. In fact, the top 200 advertisers in the U.S. love TV so much that they make up 80% of television advertising, despite accounting for only 51% of total advertising (and 41% of digital).One way to think about what is happening with YouTube specifically and advertising more broadly is that we are (finally) in the “Inevitable Fall” period of TV advertising, at least as far as linear TV advertising is concerned; YouTube is benefiting, and all of the streaming services ad-based plans are potential beneficiaries as well. The great irony here is that this is an unexpected benefit of linear TV’s self-immolation; it was Matthew Ballin a 2023 Stratechery Interviewthat laid this self-immolation out:I like to talk about the fact that pay-TV has gone through three waves and the last one is not one you can reverse, even though you see Paramount and Warner and Disney talking about the importance of linear profits.I talk about the first phase being roughly 2000 to maybe 2012. This was a period of time in which pay-TV was consistently getting better, it was getting much better. You had more programming, more RSNs, better programming, “Mad Men”, “Breaking Bad”, “Game of Thrones”. The problem is it was becoming a little bit too expensive for the average American. This is your overserving problem, and at the same time you had Netflix and Hulu coming up.Phase two runs from 2012 to 2018 and contrary to popular belief, pay-TV kept getting better. You still had more RSNs, you had peak TV happening. The problem is you were exacerbating that same trend while you were simultaneously having original content start at the streaming services. But to rebut that, you also had the emergence of vMVPDs. In some regards, TV’s still getting better but you’re going to pay less. So, the first is it keeps getting better but it’s getting too expensive. The second is there’s now original content which sits outside of pay-TV, but pay-TV is still getting better and now it’s finally getting cheaper…But then phase three is unique. For the first time in pay-TV’s history, it got worse and that’s important. The price kept going up. Virtual MVPDs started jacking their rates up $10, $15 in a year, but for the first time content started getting harvested out. You had Paramount or at the time CBS say actually the sequel to “The Good Wife”, that’s only going to be on CBS All Access. You had Disney say we’re going to greenlight “The Mandalorian” and the Marvel series. That’s not going to go into linear, it’s only going to be on streaming. We had Paramount Global say actually “1923” that was going to debut on linear, now we’re going to put it on streaming. This kept happening. And in fact, just last year you had Disney take the 36th season of “Dancing with the Stars”, a show that had been on ABC, the broadcast network, for nearly 20 years, and they said it’s only going to be on Disney Plus. And so for the first time, if you take a look over the last eighteen months, pay-TV penetration has imploded, because the product has gotten worse. For Peacock, NBCUniversal basically said, “Every high-quality show that we have in development for our broadcast network or our cable networks like USA isn’t even going to start there.” FX in 2019 announced that they were going to double their original programming hours. Then in 2020, Disney said, “Actually FX on Hulu is going to get half of that, it’s never going to show up on FX”. And by the way, everything that does appear on FX is going to be on Hulu twelve hours later with or without ads. There’s kind of no turning that around.I wrote “TV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall” in 2016, and my thesis was that linear TV and linear TV advertisers would collapse together, as the former was outcompeted by online entertainment (including streaming), and the latter faced challenges from direct-to-consumer niche-focused competitors that were better able to leverage direct response advertising. Ball’s phase three, though, meant that TV actually self-destructed more quickly than TV-focused advertisers came under pressure; moreover, the relative strength of the latter was enhanced by things like ATT that increased the cost of direct response advertising (above-and-beyond the increased ability of Meta and Google totake the profits of direct-to-consumer competitors).The end result is that there are still a lot of brand advertising dollars out there looking for places other than linear to spend, and the easiest places to spend is connected TV.Network and the Web’s AI ProblemThat leaves the real change in Google’s business: Google Network, which includes AdMob (for in-app advertising), AdSense (for Google ads on websites), and Ad Manager (for placing ads from multiple networks, including AdSense, across multiple websites). Network has been growing more slowly than Google Sites (including YouTube) revenue for years, but as the chart above shows, there was a definite inflection point in 2023: Search and YouTube returned to increasing growth after the COVID and ATT slowdowns, while Network started to outright decline, including a significant drop this quarter.Network doesn’t get much attention in management commentary or analyst questions, probably because it’s been written off as a shrinking portion of Google’s revenue for years. I think, though, the timings of the shifts in the chart above give us some clues about what is happening.The first factor is ATT. While I have primarily focused on the impact of ATT on YouTube, particularly the way in which the connection between ads on YouTube and conversions on 3rd-party websites and apps was severed, the impact on Network should have been even greater, given that not just conversions but also ads are placed on 3rd-party properties. I think that this is the most likely explanation for why Network revenue growth rates stopped tracking Search and YouTube.The second factor is where I do think we are starting to see the impact of Search Generative Experiences (SGE) i.e. Google’s AI-generated search results. Google turned on SGE for everyone halfway through last quarter, which is probably why Network revenue accelerated its decline from -1% year-over-year in Q1 to -5% year-over-year in Q2; if this thesis is correct than the decline should be even higher this quarter.Keep in mind that two of the arguments as to why generative AI won’t hurt Google Search too badly is that (1) most searches are non-commercial in nature and (2) Google can figure out how to incorporate ads into generative search results. Notice, though, that neither of these alleviate the pain for 3rd-party websites: those “non-commercial” searches used to drive people to websites with display ads, while ads in generative results will compete with whatever links SGE does offer users to go elsewhere. In short, Google Search may be ok in the age of AI, at least for now, but there is starting to be real evidence that websites will suffer.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe 2024 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateThursday, December 19, 20242025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Llama 3.1; Zuckerberg on Open Source AI; Kamala Harris, Europe, and Tech InnovationReddit’s Robots.txt, The Reddit Perspective, Google Contracts→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Onlast week’s episode of Sharp Techwe discussed Llama 3.1 and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s argument in favor of open source (weights) models, Crowdstrike, and Netflix’s shifting approach to ads.On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s advertising sales growth slowed in the second quarter, putting a damper on parent Alphabet’s primary revenue engine as it pours more money into artificial intelligence investments. Alphabet reported that its Google division generated $64.6 billion in ad sales from April to June, an increase of 11.1% from the same period last year. That represented a slowdown from the previous quarter, when ad sales rose 13% year-over-year. Shares in Alphabet were down 1.4% during after-hours trading after Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat indicated third-quarter operating margins would be crimped by investments in technical infrastructure and the cost of launching new hardware products, such as the Pixel phone.Google’s earnings have been a bit of a roller coast this year: the stock dropped around 7 percent after the company reported Q4 2023 earnings in late January, and jumped around 10 percent after first quarter results in April; this time the stock is down about 9 percent since the day before earnings, while still being up 21% on the year. These are pretty big swings for such an established company, but I suspect they speak to the uncertainty investors have about the long-term impact of AI on Search.To that end,I argued in Januarythat there really wasn’t much evidence for investor concern about search:First off, search revenue is not in nearly the doldrums it was a year ago (some of which, to be fair, was a matter of difficult COVID comps). What has happened is that the recovery in growth that seemed to be happening the last few quarters from last year’s nadir has slowed. This does not mean that things like AI — to take the chief worry about Google search, both in terms of customers using alternatives to search and also cannibalizing the search experience itself — are or are not having an effect; the only thing one can be sure about is that it does not appear to be helping. That, frankly, is as far as I’m willing to go: there simply isn’t enough data or commentary from management to say more than that about a subject so fraught.I think that is still the case, particularly when you look at Google Search revenue in isolation (technically all of Google Sites revenue ex-YouTube):One of the big challenges here is that Google only started breaking out YouTube revenue in Q4 2019, and then COVID hit in 2020; this means it is difficult to know exactly what is a “normal” Google Sites ex-YouTube growth rate. That, though, argues in favor of Search doing well: this quarter’s flat year-over-year growth is over a tougher comp than the last couple of quarters. In fact, if you look at the two-year-over-two-year growth rates, Search was up 19% this quarter, compared to 17% in Q1 and 11% in Q4 2023.YouTube and Brand AdvertisingThe YouTube slowdown in growth is potentially more concerning, but that has its own countervailing factors: the other thing that happened in 2021 was Apple’s App Tracking Transparency, which impacted YouTube much more than Search (indeed,it probably helped Search). To that end, it was the year-ago quarter that suggested that Google, like Meta before them, had figured out how to restart direct response growth in a post-ATT world. Frommy Update about Google’s earnings last July:I’ve been tracking YouTube’s post-App Tracking Transparency slump for over a year now; that timing is notable, becausesaid slump started in Q1 2022; it was concerning thatYouTube was still down last quarter, given that comp was to the first quarter impacted by ATT, and it is encouraging that the streaming service has returned to growth, even if its relative to another declining quarter. What is interesting is that the primary driver was brand advertising: how much of YouTube’s strength is due to the implosion of linear TV as opposed to Google finally figuring out direct response advertising in a post-ATT world?In short, the YouTube story is basically a tough comp. Meanwhile, that last sentence is still an open question: YouTube’s growth was still driven more by brand than direct response; Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler saidon the earnings call:CTV [Connected TV] on YouTube is continuing to benefit from a combination of strong watch time growth, viewer and advertiser innovation and a shift in brand advertising budgets from linear TV to YouTube. Our largest advertisers across verticals, including retail, entertainment, telco and home and personal care, are partnering with creators on ads and organic integrations.Notice those categories: I wrote about them in 2016 inTV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall:Notice that the vast majority of the industries on on this list are dominated by massive companies that compete on scale and distribution. CPG is the perfect example: building a “house of brands” allows a company like Procter & Gamble to target demographic groups even as they leverage scale to invest in R&D, bring down the cost of products, and most importantly, dominate the distribution channel (i.e. retail shelf space). Said retailers, meanwhile, are huge in their own right, not only so they can match their massive suppliers at the bargaining table but also so they can scale logistics, inventory management, store development, etc. Automobile companies, meanwhile, are not unlike CPG companies: they operate a “house of brands” to serve different demographics while benefitting from scale in production and distribution; the primary difference is that they make money through one large purchase instead of over many smaller purchases over time.Similar principles apply to the other companies on this list: all are looking to reach as many consumers as possible with blunt targeting at best, all benefit from scale, and all are looking to earn significant lifetime value from consumers. And, along those lines, all can afford the expense of TV. In fact, the top 200 advertisers in the U.S. love TV so much that they make up 80% of television advertising, despite accounting for only 51% of total advertising (and 41% of digital).One way to think about what is happening with YouTube specifically and advertising more broadly is that we are (finally) in the “Inevitable Fall” period of TV advertising, at least as far as linear TV advertising is concerned; YouTube is benefiting, and all of the streaming services ad-based plans are potential beneficiaries as well. The great irony here is that this is an unexpected benefit of linear TV’s self-immolation; it was Matthew Ballin a 2023 Stratechery Interviewthat laid this self-immolation out:I like to talk about the fact that pay-TV has gone through three waves and the last one is not one you can reverse, even though you see Paramount and Warner and Disney talking about the importance of linear profits.I talk about the first phase being roughly 2000 to maybe 2012. This was a period of time in which pay-TV was consistently getting better, it was getting much better. You had more programming, more RSNs, better programming, “Mad Men”, “Breaking Bad”, “Game of Thrones”. The problem is it was becoming a little bit too expensive for the average American. This is your overserving problem, and at the same time you had Netflix and Hulu coming up.Phase two runs from 2012 to 2018 and contrary to popular belief, pay-TV kept getting better. You still had more RSNs, you had peak TV happening. The problem is you were exacerbating that same trend while you were simultaneously having original content start at the streaming services. But to rebut that, you also had the emergence of vMVPDs. In some regards, TV’s still getting better but you’re going to pay less. So, the first is it keeps getting better but it’s getting too expensive. The second is there’s now original content which sits outside of pay-TV, but pay-TV is still getting better and now it’s finally getting cheaper…But then phase three is unique. For the first time in pay-TV’s history, it got worse and that’s important. The price kept going up. Virtual MVPDs started jacking their rates up $10, $15 in a year, but for the first time content started getting harvested out. You had Paramount or at the time CBS say actually the sequel to “The Good Wife”, that’s only going to be on CBS All Access. You had Disney say we’re going to greenlight “The Mandalorian” and the Marvel series. That’s not going to go into linear, it’s only going to be on streaming. We had Paramount Global say actually “1923” that was going to debut on linear, now we’re going to put it on streaming. This kept happening. And in fact, just last year you had Disney take the 36th season of “Dancing with the Stars”, a show that had been on ABC, the broadcast network, for nearly 20 years, and they said it’s only going to be on Disney Plus. And so for the first time, if you take a look over the last eighteen months, pay-TV penetration has imploded, because the product has gotten worse. For Peacock, NBCUniversal basically said, “Every high-quality show that we have in development for our broadcast network or our cable networks like USA isn’t even going to start there.” FX in 2019 announced that they were going to double their original programming hours. Then in 2020, Disney said, “Actually FX on Hulu is going to get half of that, it’s never going to show up on FX”. And by the way, everything that does appear on FX is going to be on Hulu twelve hours later with or without ads. There’s kind of no turning that around.I wrote “TV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall” in 2016, and my thesis was that linear TV and linear TV advertisers would collapse together, as the former was outcompeted by online entertainment (including streaming), and the latter faced challenges from direct-to-consumer niche-focused competitors that were better able to leverage direct response advertising. Ball’s phase three, though, meant that TV actually self-destructed more quickly than TV-focused advertisers came under pressure; moreover, the relative strength of the latter was enhanced by things like ATT that increased the cost of direct response advertising (above-and-beyond the increased ability of Meta and Google totake the profits of direct-to-consumer competitors).The end result is that there are still a lot of brand advertising dollars out there looking for places other than linear to spend, and the easiest places to spend is connected TV.Network and the Web’s AI ProblemThat leaves the real change in Google’s business: Google Network, which includes AdMob (for in-app advertising), AdSense (for Google ads on websites), and Ad Manager (for placing ads from multiple networks, including AdSense, across multiple websites). Network has been growing more slowly than Google Sites (including YouTube) revenue for years, but as the chart above shows, there was a definite inflection point in 2023: Search and YouTube returned to increasing growth after the COVID and ATT slowdowns, while Network started to outright decline, including a significant drop this quarter.Network doesn’t get much attention in management commentary or analyst questions, probably because it’s been written off as a shrinking portion of Google’s revenue for years. I think, though, the timings of the shifts in the chart above give us some clues about what is happening.The first factor is ATT. While I have primarily focused on the impact of ATT on YouTube, particularly the way in which the connection between ads on YouTube and conversions on 3rd-party websites and apps was severed, the impact on Network should have been even greater, given that not just conversions but also ads are placed on 3rd-party properties. I think that this is the most likely explanation for why Network revenue growth rates stopped tracking Search and YouTube.The second factor is where I do think we are starting to see the impact of Search Generative Experiences (SGE) i.e. Google’s AI-generated search results. Google turned on SGE for everyone halfway through last quarter, which is probably why Network revenue accelerated its decline from -1% year-over-year in Q1 to -5% year-over-year in Q2; if this thesis is correct than the decline should be even higher this quarter.Keep in mind that two of the arguments as to why generative AI won’t hurt Google Search too badly is that (1) most searches are non-commercial in nature and (2) Google can figure out how to incorporate ads into generative search results. Notice, though, that neither of these alleviate the pain for 3rd-party websites: those “non-commercial” searches used to drive people to websites with display ads, while ads in generative results will compete with whatever links SGE does offer users to go elsewhere. In short, Google Search may be ok in the age of AI, at least for now, but there is starting to be real evidence that websites will suffer.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Google’s advertising sales growth slowed in the second quarter, putting a damper on parent Alphabet’s primary revenue engine as it pours more money into artificial intelligence investments. Alphabet reported that its Google division generated $64.6 billion in ad sales from April to June, an increase of 11.1% from the same period last year. That represented a slowdown from the previous quarter, when ad sales rose 13% year-over-year. Shares in Alphabet were down 1.4% during after-hours trading after Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat indicated third-quarter operating margins would be crimped by investments in technical infrastructure and the cost of launching new hardware products, such as the Pixel phone. Google’s earnings have been a bit of a roller coast this year: the stock dropped around 7 percent after the company reported Q4 2023 earnings in late January, and jumped around 10 percent after first quarter results in April; this time the stock is down about 9 percent since the day before earnings, while still being up 21% on the year. These are pretty big swings for such an established company, but I suspect they speak to the uncertainty investors have about the long-term impact of AI on Search. First off, search revenue is not in nearly the doldrums it was a year ago (some of which, to be fair, was a matter of difficult COVID comps). What has happened is that the recovery in growth that seemed to be happening the last few quarters from last year’s nadir has slowed. This does not mean that things like AI — to take the chief worry about Google search, both in terms of customers using alternatives to search and also cannibalizing the search experience itself — are or are not having an effect; the only thing one can be sure about is that it does not appear to be helping. That, frankly, is as far as I’m willing to go: there simply isn’t enough data or commentary from management to say more than that about a subject so fraught. One of the big challenges here is that Google only started breaking out YouTube revenue in Q4 2019, and then COVID hit in 2020; this means it is difficult to know exactly what is a “normal” Google Sites ex-YouTube growth rate. That, though, argues in favor of Search doing well: this quarter’s flat year-over-year growth is over a tougher comp than the last couple of quarters. In fact, if you look at the two-year-over-two-year growth rates, Search was up 19% this quarter, compared to 17% in Q1 and 11% in Q4 2023. The YouTube slowdown in growth is potentially more concerning, but that has its own countervailing factors: the other thing that happened in 2021 was Apple’s App Tracking Transparency, which impacted YouTube much more than Search (indeed,it probably helped Search). To that end, it was the year-ago quarter that suggested that Google, like Meta before them, had figured out how to restart direct response growth in a post-ATT world. Frommy Update about Google’s earnings last July: I’ve been tracking YouTube’s post-App Tracking Transparency slump for over a year now; that timing is notable, becausesaid slump started in Q1 2022; it was concerning thatYouTube was still down last quarter, given that comp was to the first quarter impacted by ATT, and it is encouraging that the streaming service has returned to growth, even if its relative to another declining quarter. What is interesting is that the primary driver was brand advertising: how much of YouTube’s strength is due to the implosion of linear TV as opposed to Google finally figuring out direct response advertising in a post-ATT world? In short, the YouTube story is basically a tough comp. Meanwhile, that last sentence is still an open question: YouTube’s growth was still driven more by brand than direct response; Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler saidon the earnings call: CTV [Connected TV] on YouTube is continuing to benefit from a combination of strong watch time growth, viewer and advertiser innovation and a shift in brand advertising budgets from linear TV to YouTube. Our largest advertisers across verticals, including retail, entertainment, telco and home and personal care, are partnering with creators on ads and organic integrations. Notice that the vast majority of the industries on on this list are dominated by massive companies that compete on scale and distribution. CPG is the perfect example: building a “house of brands” allows a company like Procter & Gamble to target demographic groups even as they leverage scale to invest in R&D, bring down the cost of products, and most importantly, dominate the distribution channel (i.e. retail shelf space). Said retailers, meanwhile, are huge in their own right, not only so they can match their massive suppliers at the bargaining table but also so they can scale logistics, inventory management, store development, etc. Automobile companies, meanwhile, are not unlike CPG companies: they operate a “house of brands” to serve different demographics while benefitting from scale in production and distribution; the primary difference is that they make money through one large purchase instead of over many smaller purchases over time. Similar principles apply to the other companies on this list: all are looking to reach as many consumers as possible with blunt targeting at best, all benefit from scale, and all are looking to earn significant lifetime value from consumers. And, along those lines, all can afford the expense of TV. In fact, the top 200 advertisers in the U.S. love TV so much that they make up 80% of television advertising, despite accounting for only 51% of total advertising (and 41% of digital). One way to think about what is happening with YouTube specifically and advertising more broadly is that we are (finally) in the “Inevitable Fall” period of TV advertising, at least as far as linear TV advertising is concerned; YouTube is benefiting, and all of the streaming services ad-based plans are potential beneficiaries as well. The great irony here is that this is an unexpected benefit of linear TV’s self-immolation; it was Matthew Ballin a 2023 Stratechery Interviewthat laid this self-immolation out: I like to talk about the fact that pay-TV has gone through three waves and the last one is not one you can reverse, even though you see Paramount and Warner and Disney talking about the importance of linear profits. I talk about the first phase being roughly 2000 to maybe 2012. This was a period of time in which pay-TV was consistently getting better, it was getting much better. You had more programming, more RSNs, better programming, “Mad Men”, “Breaking Bad”, “Game of Thrones”. The problem is it was becoming a little bit too expensive for the average American. This is your overserving problem, and at the same time you had Netflix and Hulu coming up. Phase two runs from 2012 to 2018 and contrary to popular belief, pay-TV kept getting better. You still had more RSNs, you had peak TV happening. The problem is you were exacerbating that same trend while you were simultaneously having original content start at the streaming services. But to rebut that, you also had the emergence of vMVPDs. In some regards, TV’s still getting better but you’re going to pay less. So, the first is it keeps getting better but it’s getting too expensive. The second is there’s now original content which sits outside of pay-TV, but pay-TV is still getting better and now it’s finally getting cheaper… But then phase three is unique. For the first time in pay-TV’s history, it got worse and that’s important. The price kept going up. Virtual MVPDs started jacking their rates up $10, $15 in a year, but for the first time content started getting harvested out. You had Paramount or at the time CBS say actually the sequel to “The Good Wife”, that’s only going to be on CBS All Access. You had Disney say we’re going to greenlight “The Mandalorian” and the Marvel series. That’s not going to go into linear, it’s only going to be on streaming. We had Paramount Global say actually “1923” that was going to debut on linear, now we’re going to put it on streaming. This kept happening. And in fact, just last year you had Disney take the 36th season of “Dancing with the Stars”, a show that had been on ABC, the broadcast network, for nearly 20 years, and they said it’s only going to be on Disney Plus. And so for the first time, if you take a look over the last eighteen months, pay-TV penetration has imploded, because the product has gotten worse. For Peacock, NBCUniversal basically said, “Every high-quality show that we have in development for our broadcast network or our cable networks like USA isn’t even going to start there.” FX in 2019 announced that they were going to double their original programming hours. Then in 2020, Disney said, “Actually FX on Hulu is going to get half of that, it’s never going to show up on FX”. And by the way, everything that does appear on FX is going to be on Hulu twelve hours later with or without ads. There’s kind of no turning that around. I wrote “TV Advertising’s Surprising Strength — And Inevitable Fall” in 2016, and my thesis was that linear TV and linear TV advertisers would collapse together, as the former was outcompeted by online entertainment (including streaming), and the latter faced challenges from direct-to-consumer niche-focused competitors that were better able to leverage direct response advertising. Ball’s phase three, though, meant that TV actually self-destructed more quickly than TV-focused advertisers came under pressure; moreover, the relative strength of the latter was enhanced by things like ATT that increased the cost of direct response advertising (above-and-beyond the increased ability of Meta and Google totake the profits of direct-to-consumer competitors). That leaves the real change in Google’s business: Google Network, which includes AdMob (for in-app advertising), AdSense (for Google ads on websites), and Ad Manager (for placing ads from multiple networks, including AdSense, across multiple websites). Network has been growing more slowly than Google Sites (including YouTube) revenue for years, but as the chart above shows, there was a definite inflection point in 2023: Search and YouTube returned to increasing growth after the COVID and ATT slowdowns, while Network started to outright decline, including a significant drop this quarter. Network doesn’t get much attention in management commentary or analyst questions, probably because it’s been written off as a shrinking portion of Google’s revenue for years. I think, though, the timings of the shifts in the chart above give us some clues about what is happening. The first factor is ATT. While I have primarily focused on the impact of ATT on YouTube, particularly the way in which the connection between ads on YouTube and conversions on 3rd-party websites and apps was severed, the impact on Network should have been even greater, given that not just conversions but also ads are placed on 3rd-party properties. I think that this is the most likely explanation for why Network revenue growth rates stopped tracking Search and YouTube. The second factor is where I do think we are starting to see the impact of Search Generative Experiences (SGE) i.e. Google’s AI-generated search results. Google turned on SGE for everyone halfway through last quarter, which is probably why Network revenue accelerated its decline from -1% year-over-year in Q1 to -5% year-over-year in Q2; if this thesis is correct than the decline should be even higher this quarter. Keep in mind that two of the arguments as to why generative AI won’t hurt Google Search too badly is that (1) most searches are non-commercial in nature and (2) Google can figure out how to incorporate ads into generative search results. Notice, though, that neither of these alleviate the pain for 3rd-party websites: those “non-commercial” searches used to drive people to websites with display ads, while ads in generative results will compete with whatever links SGE does offer users to go elsewhere. In short, Google Search may be ok in the age of AI, at least for now, but there is starting to be real evidence that websites will suffer. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025