# [PODCAST] Antitrust in America (classic)

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/11/01/1197954487/antitrust-double-feature-rockefeller-bork
**Atlas ID**: 229484
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.845064

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Antitrust in America, from Standard Oil to Bork (classic) : Planet MoneyEarlier this fall, the Federal Trade Commission filed a high-stakes lawsuit against Amazon.In that suit, the FTC claims Amazon is a monopoly, and it accuses the company of using anti-competitive tactics to hold onto its market power. It's a big case, with implications for consumers and businesses and digital marketplaces, and for antitrust law itself. That is the highly important but somewhat obscure body of law that deals with competition and big business.And so, this week on Planet Money, we are doing a deep dive on the history of antitrust. It begins with today's episode, a Planet Money double feature. Two classic episodes that tell the story of how the U.S. government's approach to big business and competition has changed over time.First, the story of a moment more than 100 years ago, when the government stepped into the free market in a big way to make competition work. It's the story of John D. Rockefeller and Standard Oil, and a muckraking journalist named Ida Tarbell.Then, we fast forward to a turning point that took antitrust in the other direction. This is the story of a lawyer named Robert Bork, who transformed the way courts would interpret antitrust law.These episodes were produced by Sally Helm with help from Alexi Horowitz Ghazi. They were edited by Bryant Urdstadt. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkAntitrust in America, from Standard Oil to Bork (classic)November 1, 20237:25 PM ETByKenny Malone,Julia Simon,Jacob Goldstein,Bryant Urdstadt,Sally Helm,Alexi Horowitz-GhaziAntitrust in America, from Standard Oil to Bork (classic)Listen·40:1740:17Toggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954487/1210039782" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Enlarge this imageLEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated Presshide captiontoggle captionHarris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated PressLEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated PressEarlier this fall, the Federal Trade Commission filed a high-stakes lawsuit against Amazon.In that suit, the FTC claims Amazon is a monopoly, and it accuses the company of using anti-competitive tactics to hold onto its market power. It's a big case, with implications for consumers and businesses and digital marketplaces, and for antitrust law itself. That is the highly important but somewhat obscure body of law that deals with competition and big business.And so, this week on Planet Money, we are doing a deep dive on the history of antitrust. It begins with today's episode, a Planet Money double feature. Two classic episodes that tell the story of how the U.S. government's approach to big business and competition has changed over time.Sponsor MessageFirst, the story of a moment more than 100 years ago, when the government stepped into the free market in a big way to make competition work. It's the story of John D. Rockefeller and Standard Oil, and a muckraking journalist named Ida Tarbell.Then, we fast forward to a turning point that took antitrust in the other direction. This is the story of a lawyer named Robert Bork, who transformed the way courts would interpret antitrust law.Planet MoneyAntitrust 3: Big TechThese episodes were produced by Sally Helm with help from Alexi Horowitz Ghazi. They were edited by Bryant Urdstadt. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Music Production - "Cold Heart," "What I Need," "Pyramid Thoughts," "Edge of Fear," and "Magic Voyage."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Antitrust in America, from Standard Oil to Bork (classic)Listen·40:1740:17Toggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954487/1210039782" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Antitrust in America, from Standard Oil to Bork (classic)Listen·40:1740:17Toggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954487/1210039782" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Enlarge this imageLEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated Presshide captiontoggle captionHarris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated PressLEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated PressEarlier this fall, the Federal Trade Commission filed a high-stakes lawsuit against Amazon.In that suit, the FTC claims Amazon is a monopoly, and it accuses the company of using anti-competitive tactics to hold onto its market power. It's a big case, with implications for consumers and businesses and digital marketplaces, and for antitrust law itself. That is the highly important but somewhat obscure body of law that deals with competition and big business.And so, this week on Planet Money, we are doing a deep dive on the history of antitrust. It begins with today's episode, a Planet Money double feature. Two classic episodes that tell the story of how the U.S. government's approach to big business and competition has changed over time.Sponsor MessageFirst, the story of a moment more than 100 years ago, when the government stepped into the free market in a big way to make competition work. It's the story of John D. Rockefeller and Standard Oil, and a muckraking journalist named Ida Tarbell.Then, we fast forward to a turning point that took antitrust in the other direction. This is the story of a lawyer named Robert Bork, who transformed the way courts would interpret antitrust law.Planet MoneyAntitrust 3: Big TechThese episodes were produced by Sally Helm with help from Alexi Horowitz Ghazi. They were edited by Bryant Urdstadt. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Music Production - "Cold Heart," "What I Need," "Pyramid Thoughts," "Edge of Fear," and "Magic Voyage." Enlarge this imageLEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated Presshide captiontoggle captionHarris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated PressLEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated Press LEFT: Ida Tarbell, photographedbetween 1905 and 1945. RIGHT: Robert Bork in 1987.Harris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated Presshide captiontoggle captionHarris & Ewing/Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division/Associated Press In that suit, the FTC claims Amazon is a monopoly, and it accuses the company of using anti-competitive tactics to hold onto its market power. It's a big case, with implications for consumers and businesses and digital marketplaces, and for antitrust law itself. That is the highly important but somewhat obscure body of law that deals with competition and big business. And so, this week on Planet Money, we are doing a deep dive on the history of antitrust. It begins with today's episode, a Planet Money double feature. Two classic episodes that tell the story of how the U.S. government's approach to big business and competition has changed over time. First, the story of a moment more than 100 years ago, when the government stepped into the free market in a big way to make competition work. It's the story of John D. Rockefeller and Standard Oil, and a muckraking journalist named Ida Tarbell. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra