# [PODCAST] Why does the government fund research at universities?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/05/28/1253247256/-higher-education-federal-funding-universities-science-research
**Atlas ID**: 229443
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.837089

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How the federal government came to fund research at universities : Planet MoneyAmerican universities are where people go to learn and teach. They're also where research and development happens. Over the past eight decades, universities have received billions in federal dollars to help that happen. Those dollars have contributed to innovations like: Drone technology. Inhalable Covid vaccines. Google search code.The Trump administration is cutting or threatening to cut federal funding for research. Federal funding for all kinds of science is at its lowest level in decades.Today on the show: when did the government start funding research at universities? And will massive cuts mean the end of universities as we know them?We hear from the man who first pushed the government to fund university research and we talk to the chancellor of a big research school, Washington University in St. Louis. He opens up his books to show us how his school gets funded and what it would mean if that funding went away.This episode is part of our seriesPax Americana, about how the Trump administration and others are challenging a set of post-World War II policies that placed the U.S. at the center of the economic universe.Listen to our episode about the reign of the dollar.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify, theNPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWhy does the government fund research at universities?May 28, 20257:27 PM ETByErika Beras,Mary Childs,Willa Rubin,Marianne McCuneWhy does the government fund research at universities?Listen·27:1127:11TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1253247256/1269386498" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this image2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashUhide captiontoggle captionThomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashU2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashUAmerican universities are where people go to learn and teach. They're also where research and development happens. Over the past eight decades, universities have received billions in federal dollars to help that happen. Those dollars have contributed to innovations like: Drone technology. Inhalable Covid vaccines. Google search code.The Trump administration is cutting or threatening to cut federal funding for research. Federal funding for all kinds of science is at its lowest level in decades.Today on the show: when did the government start funding research at universities? And will massive cuts mean the end of universities as we know them?We hear from the man who first pushed the government to fund university research and we talk to the chancellor of a big research school, Washington University in St. Louis. He opens up his books to show us how his school gets funded and what it would mean if that funding went away.This episode is part of our seriesPax Americana, about how the Trump administration and others are challenging a set of post-World War II policies that placed the U.S. at the center of the economic universe.Listen to our episode about the reign of the dollar.Sponsor MessageThis episode was produced by Willa Rubin and edited by Marianne McCune. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Harry Paul. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Music Production - "Quiescent" and "Walk the Dream." Audio Network - "Star Alignment."higher educationresearch fundingScientific researchFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Why does the government fund research at universities?Listen·27:1127:11TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1253247256/1269386498" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Why does the government fund research at universities?Listen·27:1127:11TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1253247256/1269386498" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1253247256/1269386498" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this image2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashUhide captiontoggle captionThomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashU2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashUAmerican universities are where people go to learn and teach. They're also where research and development happens. Over the past eight decades, universities have received billions in federal dollars to help that happen. Those dollars have contributed to innovations like: Drone technology. Inhalable Covid vaccines. Google search code.The Trump administration is cutting or threatening to cut federal funding for research. Federal funding for all kinds of science is at its lowest level in decades.Today on the show: when did the government start funding research at universities? And will massive cuts mean the end of universities as we know them?We hear from the man who first pushed the government to fund university research and we talk to the chancellor of a big research school, Washington University in St. Louis. He opens up his books to show us how his school gets funded and what it would mean if that funding went away.This episode is part of our seriesPax Americana, about how the Trump administration and others are challenging a set of post-World War II policies that placed the U.S. at the center of the economic universe.Listen to our episode about the reign of the dollar.Sponsor MessageThis episode was produced by Willa Rubin and edited by Marianne McCune. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Harry Paul. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Music Production - "Quiescent" and "Walk the Dream." Audio Network - "Star Alignment." Enlarge this image2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashUhide captiontoggle captionThomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashU2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashU 2024-10-03 — Aerial view of Brookings Hall, the East End, Forest Park, the Medical Campus and downtown St. Louis.Thomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashUhide captiontoggle captionThomas Malkowicz/Thomas Malkowicz/WashU American universities are where people go to learn and teach. They're also where research and development happens. Over the past eight decades, universities have received billions in federal dollars to help that happen. Those dollars have contributed to innovations like: Drone technology. Inhalable Covid vaccines. Google search code.The Trump administration is cutting or threatening to cut federal funding for research. Federal funding for all kinds of science is at its lowest level in decades.Today on the show: when did the government start funding research at universities? And will massive cuts mean the end of universities as we know them?We hear from the man who first pushed the government to fund university research and we talk to the chancellor of a big research school, Washington University in St. Louis. He opens up his books to show us how his school gets funded and what it would mean if that funding went away.This episode is part of our seriesPax Americana, about how the Trump administration and others are challenging a set of post-World War II policies that placed the U.S. at the center of the economic universe.Listen to our episode about the reign of the dollar. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra