# [PODCAST] Jay & Shai's debt ceiling adventure

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/02/17/1158035090/debt-ceiling-negotiation-deadline-x-date-extraordinary-measures-jay-powell
**Atlas ID**: 229510
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.849711

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How the debt ceiling deadline is determined and what happens after : Planet MoneyEvery year, the U.S. government spends more money than it takes in. In order to fund all that spending, the country takes on debt. Congress has the power to limit how much debt the U.S. takes on. Right now, the debt limit is $31.4 trillion dollars. Once we reach that limit, Congress has a few options so that the government keeps paying its bills: Raise the debt limit, suspend it, or eliminate it entirely.That debate and negotiations are back this season. One thing that is in short supply, but very important for these negotiations, is good information. Shai Akabas, of the Bipartisan Policy Center, knows this well. Right now, he and his team are working on figuring out when exactly the U.S. government could run out of money to pay its obligations — what they've dubbed: the "X Date."Shai is determined to help prevent the U.S. government from blowing past the X Date without a solution. But this year's debt-ceiling negotiations are not going very well. Which is daunting, because if lawmakers don't figure something out, the ramifications for the global economy could be huge.So, how did Shai become the go-to expert at the go-to think tank for debt ceiling information? It started in 2011, back when he and current Chair of the Federal Reserve Jay Powell, armed with a powerpoint and the pressure of a deadline, helped stave off economic disaster.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ in Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe debt ceiling, extraordinary measures, and the X Date. Why it all matters.February 17, 20237:09 PM ETByNick Fountain,Amanda Aronczyk,Jess Jiang,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerThe debt ceiling, extraordinary measures, and the X Date. Why it all matters.Listen·26:0626:06TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158035090/1198959589" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageJemal Countess/Getty Images for Peter G. PetersJemal Countess/Getty Images for Peter G. PetersEvery year, the U.S. government spends more money than it takes in. In order to fund all that spending, the country takes on debt. Congress has the power to limit how much debt the U.S. takes on. Right now, the debt limit is $31.4 trillion dollars. Once we reach that limit, Congress has a few options so that the government keeps paying its bills: Raise the debt limit, suspend it, or eliminate it entirely.That debate and negotiations are back this season. One thing that is in short supply, but very important for these negotiations, is good information. Shai Akabas, of the Bipartisan Policy Center, knows this well. Right now, he and his team are working on figuring out when exactly the U.S. government could run out of money to pay its obligations — what they've dubbed: the "X Date."Sponsor Message"Being an expert in the debt limit is a little like being an expert on termites," said Shai. "Nobody is really excited to hear the news you have to share, but they do need to know it."Enlarge this image"It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPR"It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRShai is determined to help prevent the U.S. government from blowing past the X Date without a solution. But this year's debt-ceiling negotiations are not going very well. "The political dynamics this year are perhaps worse than they've ever been," said Shai, who has had a front row seat to the past decade of debt-ceiling negotiations.Which is daunting, because if lawmakers don't figure something out, the ramifications for the global economy could be huge.So, how did Shai becomethe go-to expert at the go-to think tankfor debt ceiling information? It started in 2011, back when he and current Chair of the Federal Reserve Jay Powell, armed with a powerpoint and the pressure of a deadline, helped stave off economic disaster. Listen to the podcast for that story, along with an explanation of what the Treasury Department is doing to prevent disaster now. Hint: they're deploying some 'extraordinary measures.'PoliticsWhy we have a debt ceiling, and why this trip to the brink may be differentToday's episode was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Alyssa Jeong Perry. It was engineered by Josh Newell and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was edited by Jess Jiang.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Euphoria Funk" "Darkman X" and "Invincible."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The debt ceiling, extraordinary measures, and the X Date. Why it all matters.Listen·26:0626:06TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158035090/1198959589" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The debt ceiling, extraordinary measures, and the X Date. Why it all matters.Listen·26:0626:06TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158035090/1198959589" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1158035090/1198959589" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageJemal Countess/Getty Images for Peter G. PetersJemal Countess/Getty Images for Peter G. PetersEvery year, the U.S. government spends more money than it takes in. In order to fund all that spending, the country takes on debt. Congress has the power to limit how much debt the U.S. takes on. Right now, the debt limit is $31.4 trillion dollars. Once we reach that limit, Congress has a few options so that the government keeps paying its bills: Raise the debt limit, suspend it, or eliminate it entirely.That debate and negotiations are back this season. One thing that is in short supply, but very important for these negotiations, is good information. Shai Akabas, of the Bipartisan Policy Center, knows this well. Right now, he and his team are working on figuring out when exactly the U.S. government could run out of money to pay its obligations — what they've dubbed: the "X Date."Sponsor Message"Being an expert in the debt limit is a little like being an expert on termites," said Shai. "Nobody is really excited to hear the news you have to share, but they do need to know it."Enlarge this image"It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPR"It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRShai is determined to help prevent the U.S. government from blowing past the X Date without a solution. But this year's debt-ceiling negotiations are not going very well. "The political dynamics this year are perhaps worse than they've ever been," said Shai, who has had a front row seat to the past decade of debt-ceiling negotiations.Which is daunting, because if lawmakers don't figure something out, the ramifications for the global economy could be huge.So, how did Shai becomethe go-to expert at the go-to think tankfor debt ceiling information? It started in 2011, back when he and current Chair of the Federal Reserve Jay Powell, armed with a powerpoint and the pressure of a deadline, helped stave off economic disaster. Listen to the podcast for that story, along with an explanation of what the Treasury Department is doing to prevent disaster now. Hint: they're deploying some 'extraordinary measures.'PoliticsWhy we have a debt ceiling, and why this trip to the brink may be differentToday's episode was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler with help from Alyssa Jeong Perry. It was engineered by Josh Newell and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was edited by Jess Jiang.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Euphoria Funk" "Darkman X" and "Invincible." Every year, the U.S. government spends more money than it takes in. In order to fund all that spending, the country takes on debt. Congress has the power to limit how much debt the U.S. takes on. Right now, the debt limit is $31.4 trillion dollars. Once we reach that limit, Congress has a few options so that the government keeps paying its bills: Raise the debt limit, suspend it, or eliminate it entirely. That debate and negotiations are back this season. One thing that is in short supply, but very important for these negotiations, is good information. Shai Akabas, of the Bipartisan Policy Center, knows this well. Right now, he and his team are working on figuring out when exactly the U.S. government could run out of money to pay its obligations — what they've dubbed: the "X Date." Enlarge this image"It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPR"It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPR "It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPR "It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle caption "It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide caption "It's like a big office party," says Shai Akabas (center), the Bipartisan Policy Center's director of economic policy. Except the cake comes, he says, "in the form of data."Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide caption Shai is determined to help prevent the U.S. government from blowing past the X Date without a solution. But this year's debt-ceiling negotiations are not going very well. "The political dynamics this year are perhaps worse than they've ever been," said Shai, who has had a front row seat to the past decade of debt-ceiling negotiations. So, how did Shai becomethe go-to expert at the go-to think tankfor debt ceiling information? It started in 2011, back when he and current Chair of the Federal Reserve Jay Powell, armed with a powerpoint and the pressure of a deadline, helped stave off economic disaster. Listen to the podcast for that story, along with an explanation of what the Treasury Department is doing to prevent disaster now. Hint: they're deploying some 'extraordinary measures.' Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra