# [PODCAST] Netflix Earnings, Netflix's Reporting Change, Netflix's Waiting Game

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/netflix-earnings-netflixs-reporting-change-netflixs-waiting-game/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.ktg-3gXbXosFwT8fITrso5-q0aWytknSmfiQgX0IF9sTFdlV9TJcm7X92e2sEvtV1MpBsTbmlbipRz-b1FJ0RqXEbna76Q9PxhZ2b5BAI-CMRoOrt3Aw6qForaUJvI9AucisO8LP1QgEvpif6m-hAWU_nrhCGI_er6NVyHTmYLLBKoCCQXOInAS1oeTFUYBbmBQ6pgOLBd8htddyJ_NZmbd1xZFlAdlCmAH9lal3ti_GaLHMbjWkQFAMNkkKk7cNcnztbqqo3fTKivOHmcRh_mzn4UGEV599stHCw9dEsJPFK4onIPuV1vWMtPFq7uafszne_gR6TbRfWE0rj_14dg
**Atlas ID**: 229768
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.976098

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirNetflix Earnings, Netflix’s Reporting Change, Netflix’s Waiting GameMonday, April 22, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe did ten questions on the last ten (actually 11) years of Stratechery. Topics including what I got wrong, and right; the day one launch story; the last decade of publishing on the Internet; and the long-term impact of AI on publishing.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Netflix showed that its password-sharing crackdown continues to bear fruit, delivering its strongest first-quarter customer additions since the pandemic and further strengthening its position as the dominant global streamer. The company added 9.33 million subscribers in the first quarter, more than five times the number of customers it added during the same period a year earlier, with its efforts to limit password sharing continuing to bear fruit. Netflix began limiting password sharing in earnest about a year ago. Netflix has spent the last year rolling out that initiative, working to expand its ad business and changing its line-up of prices and plans to better position itself for the future.Early next year, the company plans to stop providing investors quarterly membership numbers and the average revenue generated per member, saying it now has multiple pricing tiers in a variety of markets. Netflix said it would add annual revenue guidance.The next day, fromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares tumbled the most in two years on Friday as a weak forecast for revenue and a warning that the streaming giant will stop reporting subscriber numbers in 2025 overshadowed an otherwise strong start to the year. The stock dropped 9.1%, to $555.04 in New York at the close, the biggest decline since April 2022. Still, the shares have gained 14% this year.Expectations for Netflix’s first quarter had soared in recent days, as one analyst after another published rosy forecasts. And while Netflix did indeed beat those expectations, posting its best start to the year since 2020, it signaled a more temperate pace of growth ahead. In its letter to investors Thursday, the company said subscriber gains will be lower this period, while revenue will increase 16%.Netflix also said it will stop reporting paid quarterly membership and revenue per subscriber, starting the first quarter of next year. Those metrics have long been the primary way Wall Street evaluated the company’s performance, but Netflix has tried to shift the focus to traditional measures like sales and profit. Management will continue to report major subscriber milestones.I am, as a rule, a big advocate of more disclosures from public companies, for selfish reasons if nothing else! At the same time, I’m somewhat sympathetic to Netflix’s decision here;I wrote two years ago, when the company stopped giving subscriber forecasts:On one hand, I’m always grumpy when companies decrease the amount of information they are disclosing; on the other hand, this specific number is read into so deeply that I’m honestly not sure how much value it provides other than to speculators. Of course not giving a prediction may only make the swings worse, but, as Netflix does fairly note, the company’s monetization capabilities will, particularly with the addition of ads, be increasingly independent of subscriber numbers.That noted, one couldn’t escape the feeling that the positive numbers had the same psychological impact on Netflix’s executives: both the letter to shareholders andearnings interviewwere extremely positive, filled with both optimism and a good amount of back-patting about how well Netflix was positioned going forward.The wild swings around Netflix’s subscribers numbers really were ridiculous, especially when you look back at misses from years ago; I wrote after one of those missesin 2018:Of course that 2016 quarter ended up being a blip, and any investors that bailed on the company paid the price in missed upside. From a structural perspective, it seems reasonable to think that will likely happen again: despite the imminent entrance of Disney and the increased investment AT&T has promised in HBO, Netflix, by virtue of having a huge head start and huge user base advantage, along with a demonstrated capability to both grow subscribers even as it increases prices, is well-placed to leverage its role as an Aggregator.It’s been six years since then, and Netflix has weathered COVID and the rise of a whole host of competing streaming services, and in the end they announced these changes in a quarter where they absolutely smashed subscriber projections. It’s good to go out on top! Still, there is reason to believe that this really is the last hurrah as far as member growth is concerned; CFO Spencer Neumann saidon the earnings callin response to a question about future revenue growth:But when you think about the outlook for the year, it’s in terms of the mix of revenue growth. We expect it will be pretty similar to what you see in Q1, where it’s primarily driven by member growth because of the kind of full year impact of paid sharing rolling through the year and continued strong acquisition and retention trends.In other words, the Wall Street Journal had it right: the password crackdown is working. The bad news is that this is a growth mechanism that is finite — and, to the extent that it is the biggest driver of new members, a reason to stop reporting them; the good news is that the fact that password sharers are in fact signing up for new plans is evidence that Netflix’s viewers think the service is worth it.Netflix’s Reporting ChangeThis was Netflix’s explanation for the change in reporting from theirshareholder letter:As we’ve noted in previous letters, we’re focused on revenue and operating margin as our primary financial metrics — and engagement (i.e. time spent) as our best proxy for customer satisfaction. In our early days, when we had little revenue or profit, membership growth was a strong indicator of our future potential. But now we’re generating very substantial profit and free cash flow (FCF). We are also developing new revenue streams like advertising and our extra member feature, so memberships are just one component of our growth. In addition, as we’ve evolved our pricing and plans from a single to multiple tiers with different price points depending on the country, each incremental paid membership has a very different business impact. It’s why we stopped providing quarterly paid membership guidance in 2023 and, starting next year with our Q1’25 earnings, we will stop reporting quarterly membership numbers and ARM.We’ll continue to provide a breakout of revenue by region each quarter and the F/X impact to complement our financials. For guidance, we’ll add annual revenue guidance on top of what we already provide today: our annual operating margin and free cash flow forecast and forecasts for quarterly revenue, operating income, net income, and EPS. We’ll also announce major subscriber milestones as we cross them.Success in streaming starts with engagement. When people watch more, they stick around longer (retention), recommend Netflix more often (acquisition) and place a higher value on our service. It’s why we’ve been providing progressively more information on engagement, starting with our Top 10 weekly and most popular lists and more recently our bi-annual report into viewing on Netflix (which covers ~99% of all video watch time on our service). This is more information than any of our competitors provide, and we expect to provide even more over time.First, I think Netflix’s reasoning here is by-and-large legitimate: a member just doesn’t mean what it used to, particularly with the increased complexity of their offering.Second, the majority of Netflix’s member growth has and will continue to come from developing markets with much lower price plans. Those members are good to have, particularly those who mostly join to get access to Netflix content that is being produced for other markets; they’re just more leverage on content spending that would have happened anyways, but also aren’t necessarily indicative of the core health of the business.Third, there is an argument that Netflix is in fact embracing the final boss of being an Internet company by focusing on engagement as their most important KPI. On the Internet the only scarce resource is time and attention; that is what Netflix’s management is setting as their north star (more on this below).All that noted, this metric was useful in measuring the progress Netflix was making in their advertising business in particular. Note this answer from co-CEO Greg Peters from the earnings call in response to a question about the spread in pricing between the ad-supported and non-ad-supported tiers:We don’t have a fixed operator position on sort of the optimal pricing spread. And much like we’ve done with price changes in general, we really use signals from our customers, things like plan take rate, conversion rates, churn to guide us along an iterative path to get to that right pricing. And I think it’s also probably worth noting that sort of right pricing is not really a static position. As we continue to evolve and improve our offering, that’s going to change as well. But I think a good general guideline for us in the long term is that it would be healthy for us to land overall monetization between our ads and non-ad offerings and roughly equivalent position. So that really comes down to what works best for any given member, and it’s really a member choice about which plan they think serves them the best.What Peters is saying is that the subscription price for the ad-free tier should equal the subscription price + ad revenue per user for the ad-supported tier; going forward we will know the subscription prices but it’s going to be a lot more difficult to track just how well the advertising efforts are going without knowing the number of subscribers (for now Netflix executives admitted that the advertising tier is a drag on ARPU as the amount of inventory they have outpaces the demand from advertisers).Netflix’s Waiting GameAt one point in the earnings call, an analyst asked why Netflix was growing members, above-and-beyond the password crackdown; I thought the answers provided an amusing view into why it is that Netflix has two CEOs. Co-CEO Ted Sarandos said:That’s a great question. I would say the thing we’re doing is we’re thrilling our members. That’s the thing we set out about why we all bounced out of bed in the morning. I look at this last quarter, 8 of the first 11 weeks of the year, we’ve had the #1 film on streaming. 9 of the first 11 weeks, we’ve had the #1 original series, and I’m talking about hits like Avatar: The Last Airbender, Grasela, Damsel, Love is Blind, [Three Body] Problem, all of that just in the last few months. So this consistent and dependable and expected drumbeat of hit shows, films and games, that’s the business that we’re in. And that’s what we have to do every day, and we have to do it all over the world.Peters added:Yes, I think that’s right. I mean the fundamental is all those amazing series, film, games, live events. But a key component of our something that we’re seeking to get constantly better at is that ability to find audiences for all those great titles. Part of making that happen is just the number of people who look to us for entertainment. We mentioned over 0.5 billion people in this letter. But part of that is that product we do to effectively connect those folks with titles that they will love, which then enables us to find the largest audiences for those titles that we think that they could get anywhere. And I think as you mentioned, Ted, this applies globally to titles from all over the world, which is super exciting.In short, the content guy thinks it’s the content; the tech guy thinks it’s the recommendations! I think, though, Peters’ point is notable, particularly given the large section of the shareholder letter focused on recommendations:At the root of strong and enduring engagement is fandom. It’s why our product and marketing are all designed to fuel fandom by helping members discover their next obsession. Our most direct promotional tool is Netflix itself, which has become the go to place for so many people looking for entertainment. Our trailers, for example, generate over 6B impressions every month on Netflix — more than 40x what they get on YouTube. Across Netflix, upcoming shows and movies received over 25B impressions in March alone, helping to build anticipation for what’s next. Features like “Remind Me,” which notifies members as soon as a title premieres, enable us to turn all that interest into action. And, once titles are released, we believe our personalized recommendations are much more effective at finding audiences than relying on the techniques used in traditional entertainment. It’s how shows like Squid Game and Lupin, or films like Society of the Snow and Troll go viral — reaching much bigger audiences than would ever have been possible in the past.There is one more tidbit from the earnings call (which was moderated by Netflix’s vice president of finance, corporate development, and investor relations) I want to highlight, before I get to my point:I’ll now transition us to several questions around content. And this first one, I’ll direct to Ted. It’s a rare question around why don’t we spend more. Given what seems like a very favorable current backdrop for Netflix to acquire and license content, why not lean in even more aggressively? Could it make sense to spend more than $17 billion in cash content this year?Yes. Independent of the availability of licensed content, you should look at it — I think we’re — we’ve always been very disciplined about the way we invest in the business and how we grow it. And we can get a lot of bang for our buck by spending our money well and producing our shows really well and also by acquiring the right content.And the floodgates have opened a little more on licensing for sure. But again, we’re very focused on the ones that we think will drive the business. So I think at our current level of spending and our current rate of growth that we’re pretty comfortable spending just behind that anticipated rate of growth.The long run bull case for Netflix isn’t just that they survive making their own content, but rather that they move on from disrupting the cable bundle to basically being the cable bundle for everything but sports (and they’re even creeping in that direction when the money and opportunity makes sense). To that end, as their streaming competitors start to falter under huge losses and challenges around customer acquisition and churn mitigation, it is natural to expect that Netflix might start leveraging its position to start buying content from studios desperate to actually make money on their shows again. The company is certainly starting to do that here and there, but Sarandos made clear that Netflix isn’t going to break its budget to seize the opportunity.That, finally, leads to my point, and the biggest takeaway from the reporting change: I think that Netflix is well-placed to achieve that bull thesis, but I get the impression the company internally realizes it has a lot of building to do to get there. Specifically, the company came to an ad-based offering very late, and had to scramble to get it out the door, including partnering with Microsoft. That’s not an optimal solution for the long run; Netflix needs to build its own platform even as it builds up its ad-supported user base. Meanwhile, I definitely get the impression that Peters in particular thinks that the recommendation algorithm can be a lot better, which is another way of saying that Netflix needs to do a better job of maximizing leverage on its existing content spend before it ups its budget to buy more.Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Netflix’s New ChapterDateMonday, January 23, 2023Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019←An Interview with Michael Morton About E-Commerce Winners and LosersMeta and Open→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Netflix Earnings, Netflix’s Reporting Change, Netflix’s Waiting GameMonday, April 22, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe did ten questions on the last ten (actually 11) years of Stratechery. Topics including what I got wrong, and right; the day one launch story; the last decade of publishing on the Internet; and the long-term impact of AI on publishing.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Netflix showed that its password-sharing crackdown continues to bear fruit, delivering its strongest first-quarter customer additions since the pandemic and further strengthening its position as the dominant global streamer. The company added 9.33 million subscribers in the first quarter, more than five times the number of customers it added during the same period a year earlier, with its efforts to limit password sharing continuing to bear fruit. Netflix began limiting password sharing in earnest about a year ago. Netflix has spent the last year rolling out that initiative, working to expand its ad business and changing its line-up of prices and plans to better position itself for the future.Early next year, the company plans to stop providing investors quarterly membership numbers and the average revenue generated per member, saying it now has multiple pricing tiers in a variety of markets. Netflix said it would add annual revenue guidance.The next day, fromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares tumbled the most in two years on Friday as a weak forecast for revenue and a warning that the streaming giant will stop reporting subscriber numbers in 2025 overshadowed an otherwise strong start to the year. The stock dropped 9.1%, to $555.04 in New York at the close, the biggest decline since April 2022. Still, the shares have gained 14% this year.Expectations for Netflix’s first quarter had soared in recent days, as one analyst after another published rosy forecasts. And while Netflix did indeed beat those expectations, posting its best start to the year since 2020, it signaled a more temperate pace of growth ahead. In its letter to investors Thursday, the company said subscriber gains will be lower this period, while revenue will increase 16%.Netflix also said it will stop reporting paid quarterly membership and revenue per subscriber, starting the first quarter of next year. Those metrics have long been the primary way Wall Street evaluated the company’s performance, but Netflix has tried to shift the focus to traditional measures like sales and profit. Management will continue to report major subscriber milestones.I am, as a rule, a big advocate of more disclosures from public companies, for selfish reasons if nothing else! At the same time, I’m somewhat sympathetic to Netflix’s decision here;I wrote two years ago, when the company stopped giving subscriber forecasts:On one hand, I’m always grumpy when companies decrease the amount of information they are disclosing; on the other hand, this specific number is read into so deeply that I’m honestly not sure how much value it provides other than to speculators. Of course not giving a prediction may only make the swings worse, but, as Netflix does fairly note, the company’s monetization capabilities will, particularly with the addition of ads, be increasingly independent of subscriber numbers.That noted, one couldn’t escape the feeling that the positive numbers had the same psychological impact on Netflix’s executives: both the letter to shareholders andearnings interviewwere extremely positive, filled with both optimism and a good amount of back-patting about how well Netflix was positioned going forward.The wild swings around Netflix’s subscribers numbers really were ridiculous, especially when you look back at misses from years ago; I wrote after one of those missesin 2018:Of course that 2016 quarter ended up being a blip, and any investors that bailed on the company paid the price in missed upside. From a structural perspective, it seems reasonable to think that will likely happen again: despite the imminent entrance of Disney and the increased investment AT&T has promised in HBO, Netflix, by virtue of having a huge head start and huge user base advantage, along with a demonstrated capability to both grow subscribers even as it increases prices, is well-placed to leverage its role as an Aggregator.It’s been six years since then, and Netflix has weathered COVID and the rise of a whole host of competing streaming services, and in the end they announced these changes in a quarter where they absolutely smashed subscriber projections. It’s good to go out on top! Still, there is reason to believe that this really is the last hurrah as far as member growth is concerned; CFO Spencer Neumann saidon the earnings callin response to a question about future revenue growth:But when you think about the outlook for the year, it’s in terms of the mix of revenue growth. We expect it will be pretty similar to what you see in Q1, where it’s primarily driven by member growth because of the kind of full year impact of paid sharing rolling through the year and continued strong acquisition and retention trends.In other words, the Wall Street Journal had it right: the password crackdown is working. The bad news is that this is a growth mechanism that is finite — and, to the extent that it is the biggest driver of new members, a reason to stop reporting them; the good news is that the fact that password sharers are in fact signing up for new plans is evidence that Netflix’s viewers think the service is worth it.Netflix’s Reporting ChangeThis was Netflix’s explanation for the change in reporting from theirshareholder letter:As we’ve noted in previous letters, we’re focused on revenue and operating margin as our primary financial metrics — and engagement (i.e. time spent) as our best proxy for customer satisfaction. In our early days, when we had little revenue or profit, membership growth was a strong indicator of our future potential. But now we’re generating very substantial profit and free cash flow (FCF). We are also developing new revenue streams like advertising and our extra member feature, so memberships are just one component of our growth. In addition, as we’ve evolved our pricing and plans from a single to multiple tiers with different price points depending on the country, each incremental paid membership has a very different business impact. It’s why we stopped providing quarterly paid membership guidance in 2023 and, starting next year with our Q1’25 earnings, we will stop reporting quarterly membership numbers and ARM.We’ll continue to provide a breakout of revenue by region each quarter and the F/X impact to complement our financials. For guidance, we’ll add annual revenue guidance on top of what we already provide today: our annual operating margin and free cash flow forecast and forecasts for quarterly revenue, operating income, net income, and EPS. We’ll also announce major subscriber milestones as we cross them.Success in streaming starts with engagement. When people watch more, they stick around longer (retention), recommend Netflix more often (acquisition) and place a higher value on our service. It’s why we’ve been providing progressively more information on engagement, starting with our Top 10 weekly and most popular lists and more recently our bi-annual report into viewing on Netflix (which covers ~99% of all video watch time on our service). This is more information than any of our competitors provide, and we expect to provide even more over time.First, I think Netflix’s reasoning here is by-and-large legitimate: a member just doesn’t mean what it used to, particularly with the increased complexity of their offering.Second, the majority of Netflix’s member growth has and will continue to come from developing markets with much lower price plans. Those members are good to have, particularly those who mostly join to get access to Netflix content that is being produced for other markets; they’re just more leverage on content spending that would have happened anyways, but also aren’t necessarily indicative of the core health of the business.Third, there is an argument that Netflix is in fact embracing the final boss of being an Internet company by focusing on engagement as their most important KPI. On the Internet the only scarce resource is time and attention; that is what Netflix’s management is setting as their north star (more on this below).All that noted, this metric was useful in measuring the progress Netflix was making in their advertising business in particular. Note this answer from co-CEO Greg Peters from the earnings call in response to a question about the spread in pricing between the ad-supported and non-ad-supported tiers:We don’t have a fixed operator position on sort of the optimal pricing spread. And much like we’ve done with price changes in general, we really use signals from our customers, things like plan take rate, conversion rates, churn to guide us along an iterative path to get to that right pricing. And I think it’s also probably worth noting that sort of right pricing is not really a static position. As we continue to evolve and improve our offering, that’s going to change as well. But I think a good general guideline for us in the long term is that it would be healthy for us to land overall monetization between our ads and non-ad offerings and roughly equivalent position. So that really comes down to what works best for any given member, and it’s really a member choice about which plan they think serves them the best.What Peters is saying is that the subscription price for the ad-free tier should equal the subscription price + ad revenue per user for the ad-supported tier; going forward we will know the subscription prices but it’s going to be a lot more difficult to track just how well the advertising efforts are going without knowing the number of subscribers (for now Netflix executives admitted that the advertising tier is a drag on ARPU as the amount of inventory they have outpaces the demand from advertisers).Netflix’s Waiting GameAt one point in the earnings call, an analyst asked why Netflix was growing members, above-and-beyond the password crackdown; I thought the answers provided an amusing view into why it is that Netflix has two CEOs. Co-CEO Ted Sarandos said:That’s a great question. I would say the thing we’re doing is we’re thrilling our members. That’s the thing we set out about why we all bounced out of bed in the morning. I look at this last quarter, 8 of the first 11 weeks of the year, we’ve had the #1 film on streaming. 9 of the first 11 weeks, we’ve had the #1 original series, and I’m talking about hits like Avatar: The Last Airbender, Grasela, Damsel, Love is Blind, [Three Body] Problem, all of that just in the last few months. So this consistent and dependable and expected drumbeat of hit shows, films and games, that’s the business that we’re in. And that’s what we have to do every day, and we have to do it all over the world.Peters added:Yes, I think that’s right. I mean the fundamental is all those amazing series, film, games, live events. But a key component of our something that we’re seeking to get constantly better at is that ability to find audiences for all those great titles. Part of making that happen is just the number of people who look to us for entertainment. We mentioned over 0.5 billion people in this letter. But part of that is that product we do to effectively connect those folks with titles that they will love, which then enables us to find the largest audiences for those titles that we think that they could get anywhere. And I think as you mentioned, Ted, this applies globally to titles from all over the world, which is super exciting.In short, the content guy thinks it’s the content; the tech guy thinks it’s the recommendations! I think, though, Peters’ point is notable, particularly given the large section of the shareholder letter focused on recommendations:At the root of strong and enduring engagement is fandom. It’s why our product and marketing are all designed to fuel fandom by helping members discover their next obsession. Our most direct promotional tool is Netflix itself, which has become the go to place for so many people looking for entertainment. Our trailers, for example, generate over 6B impressions every month on Netflix — more than 40x what they get on YouTube. Across Netflix, upcoming shows and movies received over 25B impressions in March alone, helping to build anticipation for what’s next. Features like “Remind Me,” which notifies members as soon as a title premieres, enable us to turn all that interest into action. And, once titles are released, we believe our personalized recommendations are much more effective at finding audiences than relying on the techniques used in traditional entertainment. It’s how shows like Squid Game and Lupin, or films like Society of the Snow and Troll go viral — reaching much bigger audiences than would ever have been possible in the past.There is one more tidbit from the earnings call (which was moderated by Netflix’s vice president of finance, corporate development, and investor relations) I want to highlight, before I get to my point:I’ll now transition us to several questions around content. And this first one, I’ll direct to Ted. It’s a rare question around why don’t we spend more. Given what seems like a very favorable current backdrop for Netflix to acquire and license content, why not lean in even more aggressively? Could it make sense to spend more than $17 billion in cash content this year?Yes. Independent of the availability of licensed content, you should look at it — I think we’re — we’ve always been very disciplined about the way we invest in the business and how we grow it. And we can get a lot of bang for our buck by spending our money well and producing our shows really well and also by acquiring the right content.And the floodgates have opened a little more on licensing for sure. But again, we’re very focused on the ones that we think will drive the business. So I think at our current level of spending and our current rate of growth that we’re pretty comfortable spending just behind that anticipated rate of growth.The long run bull case for Netflix isn’t just that they survive making their own content, but rather that they move on from disrupting the cable bundle to basically being the cable bundle for everything but sports (and they’re even creeping in that direction when the money and opportunity makes sense). To that end, as their streaming competitors start to falter under huge losses and challenges around customer acquisition and churn mitigation, it is natural to expect that Netflix might start leveraging its position to start buying content from studios desperate to actually make money on their shows again. The company is certainly starting to do that here and there, but Sarandos made clear that Netflix isn’t going to break its budget to seize the opportunity.That, finally, leads to my point, and the biggest takeaway from the reporting change: I think that Netflix is well-placed to achieve that bull thesis, but I get the impression the company internally realizes it has a lot of building to do to get there. Specifically, the company came to an ad-based offering very late, and had to scramble to get it out the door, including partnering with Microsoft. That’s not an optimal solution for the long run; Netflix needs to build its own platform even as it builds up its ad-supported user base. Meanwhile, I definitely get the impression that Peters in particular thinks that the recommendation algorithm can be a lot better, which is another way of saying that Netflix needs to do a better job of maximizing leverage on its existing content spend before it ups its budget to buy more.Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Netflix’s New ChapterDateMonday, January 23, 2023Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019←An Interview with Michael Morton About E-Commerce Winners and LosersMeta and Open→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Netflix Earnings, Netflix’s Reporting Change, Netflix’s Waiting GameMonday, April 22, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe did ten questions on the last ten (actually 11) years of Stratechery. Topics including what I got wrong, and right; the day one launch story; the last decade of publishing on the Internet; and the long-term impact of AI on publishing.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Netflix showed that its password-sharing crackdown continues to bear fruit, delivering its strongest first-quarter customer additions since the pandemic and further strengthening its position as the dominant global streamer. The company added 9.33 million subscribers in the first quarter, more than five times the number of customers it added during the same period a year earlier, with its efforts to limit password sharing continuing to bear fruit. Netflix began limiting password sharing in earnest about a year ago. Netflix has spent the last year rolling out that initiative, working to expand its ad business and changing its line-up of prices and plans to better position itself for the future.Early next year, the company plans to stop providing investors quarterly membership numbers and the average revenue generated per member, saying it now has multiple pricing tiers in a variety of markets. Netflix said it would add annual revenue guidance.The next day, fromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares tumbled the most in two years on Friday as a weak forecast for revenue and a warning that the streaming giant will stop reporting subscriber numbers in 2025 overshadowed an otherwise strong start to the year. The stock dropped 9.1%, to $555.04 in New York at the close, the biggest decline since April 2022. Still, the shares have gained 14% this year.Expectations for Netflix’s first quarter had soared in recent days, as one analyst after another published rosy forecasts. And while Netflix did indeed beat those expectations, posting its best start to the year since 2020, it signaled a more temperate pace of growth ahead. In its letter to investors Thursday, the company said subscriber gains will be lower this period, while revenue will increase 16%.Netflix also said it will stop reporting paid quarterly membership and revenue per subscriber, starting the first quarter of next year. Those metrics have long been the primary way Wall Street evaluated the company’s performance, but Netflix has tried to shift the focus to traditional measures like sales and profit. Management will continue to report major subscriber milestones.I am, as a rule, a big advocate of more disclosures from public companies, for selfish reasons if nothing else! At the same time, I’m somewhat sympathetic to Netflix’s decision here;I wrote two years ago, when the company stopped giving subscriber forecasts:On one hand, I’m always grumpy when companies decrease the amount of information they are disclosing; on the other hand, this specific number is read into so deeply that I’m honestly not sure how much value it provides other than to speculators. Of course not giving a prediction may only make the swings worse, but, as Netflix does fairly note, the company’s monetization capabilities will, particularly with the addition of ads, be increasingly independent of subscriber numbers.That noted, one couldn’t escape the feeling that the positive numbers had the same psychological impact on Netflix’s executives: both the letter to shareholders andearnings interviewwere extremely positive, filled with both optimism and a good amount of back-patting about how well Netflix was positioned going forward.The wild swings around Netflix’s subscribers numbers really were ridiculous, especially when you look back at misses from years ago; I wrote after one of those missesin 2018:Of course that 2016 quarter ended up being a blip, and any investors that bailed on the company paid the price in missed upside. From a structural perspective, it seems reasonable to think that will likely happen again: despite the imminent entrance of Disney and the increased investment AT&T has promised in HBO, Netflix, by virtue of having a huge head start and huge user base advantage, along with a demonstrated capability to both grow subscribers even as it increases prices, is well-placed to leverage its role as an Aggregator.It’s been six years since then, and Netflix has weathered COVID and the rise of a whole host of competing streaming services, and in the end they announced these changes in a quarter where they absolutely smashed subscriber projections. It’s good to go out on top! Still, there is reason to believe that this really is the last hurrah as far as member growth is concerned; CFO Spencer Neumann saidon the earnings callin response to a question about future revenue growth:But when you think about the outlook for the year, it’s in terms of the mix of revenue growth. We expect it will be pretty similar to what you see in Q1, where it’s primarily driven by member growth because of the kind of full year impact of paid sharing rolling through the year and continued strong acquisition and retention trends.In other words, the Wall Street Journal had it right: the password crackdown is working. The bad news is that this is a growth mechanism that is finite — and, to the extent that it is the biggest driver of new members, a reason to stop reporting them; the good news is that the fact that password sharers are in fact signing up for new plans is evidence that Netflix’s viewers think the service is worth it.Netflix’s Reporting ChangeThis was Netflix’s explanation for the change in reporting from theirshareholder letter:As we’ve noted in previous letters, we’re focused on revenue and operating margin as our primary financial metrics — and engagement (i.e. time spent) as our best proxy for customer satisfaction. In our early days, when we had little revenue or profit, membership growth was a strong indicator of our future potential. But now we’re generating very substantial profit and free cash flow (FCF). We are also developing new revenue streams like advertising and our extra member feature, so memberships are just one component of our growth. In addition, as we’ve evolved our pricing and plans from a single to multiple tiers with different price points depending on the country, each incremental paid membership has a very different business impact. It’s why we stopped providing quarterly paid membership guidance in 2023 and, starting next year with our Q1’25 earnings, we will stop reporting quarterly membership numbers and ARM.We’ll continue to provide a breakout of revenue by region each quarter and the F/X impact to complement our financials. For guidance, we’ll add annual revenue guidance on top of what we already provide today: our annual operating margin and free cash flow forecast and forecasts for quarterly revenue, operating income, net income, and EPS. We’ll also announce major subscriber milestones as we cross them.Success in streaming starts with engagement. When people watch more, they stick around longer (retention), recommend Netflix more often (acquisition) and place a higher value on our service. It’s why we’ve been providing progressively more information on engagement, starting with our Top 10 weekly and most popular lists and more recently our bi-annual report into viewing on Netflix (which covers ~99% of all video watch time on our service). This is more information than any of our competitors provide, and we expect to provide even more over time.First, I think Netflix’s reasoning here is by-and-large legitimate: a member just doesn’t mean what it used to, particularly with the increased complexity of their offering.Second, the majority of Netflix’s member growth has and will continue to come from developing markets with much lower price plans. Those members are good to have, particularly those who mostly join to get access to Netflix content that is being produced for other markets; they’re just more leverage on content spending that would have happened anyways, but also aren’t necessarily indicative of the core health of the business.Third, there is an argument that Netflix is in fact embracing the final boss of being an Internet company by focusing on engagement as their most important KPI. On the Internet the only scarce resource is time and attention; that is what Netflix’s management is setting as their north star (more on this below).All that noted, this metric was useful in measuring the progress Netflix was making in their advertising business in particular. Note this answer from co-CEO Greg Peters from the earnings call in response to a question about the spread in pricing between the ad-supported and non-ad-supported tiers:We don’t have a fixed operator position on sort of the optimal pricing spread. And much like we’ve done with price changes in general, we really use signals from our customers, things like plan take rate, conversion rates, churn to guide us along an iterative path to get to that right pricing. And I think it’s also probably worth noting that sort of right pricing is not really a static position. As we continue to evolve and improve our offering, that’s going to change as well. But I think a good general guideline for us in the long term is that it would be healthy for us to land overall monetization between our ads and non-ad offerings and roughly equivalent position. So that really comes down to what works best for any given member, and it’s really a member choice about which plan they think serves them the best.What Peters is saying is that the subscription price for the ad-free tier should equal the subscription price + ad revenue per user for the ad-supported tier; going forward we will know the subscription prices but it’s going to be a lot more difficult to track just how well the advertising efforts are going without knowing the number of subscribers (for now Netflix executives admitted that the advertising tier is a drag on ARPU as the amount of inventory they have outpaces the demand from advertisers).Netflix’s Waiting GameAt one point in the earnings call, an analyst asked why Netflix was growing members, above-and-beyond the password crackdown; I thought the answers provided an amusing view into why it is that Netflix has two CEOs. Co-CEO Ted Sarandos said:That’s a great question. I would say the thing we’re doing is we’re thrilling our members. That’s the thing we set out about why we all bounced out of bed in the morning. I look at this last quarter, 8 of the first 11 weeks of the year, we’ve had the #1 film on streaming. 9 of the first 11 weeks, we’ve had the #1 original series, and I’m talking about hits like Avatar: The Last Airbender, Grasela, Damsel, Love is Blind, [Three Body] Problem, all of that just in the last few months. So this consistent and dependable and expected drumbeat of hit shows, films and games, that’s the business that we’re in. And that’s what we have to do every day, and we have to do it all over the world.Peters added:Yes, I think that’s right. I mean the fundamental is all those amazing series, film, games, live events. But a key component of our something that we’re seeking to get constantly better at is that ability to find audiences for all those great titles. Part of making that happen is just the number of people who look to us for entertainment. We mentioned over 0.5 billion people in this letter. But part of that is that product we do to effectively connect those folks with titles that they will love, which then enables us to find the largest audiences for those titles that we think that they could get anywhere. And I think as you mentioned, Ted, this applies globally to titles from all over the world, which is super exciting.In short, the content guy thinks it’s the content; the tech guy thinks it’s the recommendations! I think, though, Peters’ point is notable, particularly given the large section of the shareholder letter focused on recommendations:At the root of strong and enduring engagement is fandom. It’s why our product and marketing are all designed to fuel fandom by helping members discover their next obsession. Our most direct promotional tool is Netflix itself, which has become the go to place for so many people looking for entertainment. Our trailers, for example, generate over 6B impressions every month on Netflix — more than 40x what they get on YouTube. Across Netflix, upcoming shows and movies received over 25B impressions in March alone, helping to build anticipation for what’s next. Features like “Remind Me,” which notifies members as soon as a title premieres, enable us to turn all that interest into action. And, once titles are released, we believe our personalized recommendations are much more effective at finding audiences than relying on the techniques used in traditional entertainment. It’s how shows like Squid Game and Lupin, or films like Society of the Snow and Troll go viral — reaching much bigger audiences than would ever have been possible in the past.There is one more tidbit from the earnings call (which was moderated by Netflix’s vice president of finance, corporate development, and investor relations) I want to highlight, before I get to my point:I’ll now transition us to several questions around content. And this first one, I’ll direct to Ted. It’s a rare question around why don’t we spend more. Given what seems like a very favorable current backdrop for Netflix to acquire and license content, why not lean in even more aggressively? Could it make sense to spend more than $17 billion in cash content this year?Yes. Independent of the availability of licensed content, you should look at it — I think we’re — we’ve always been very disciplined about the way we invest in the business and how we grow it. And we can get a lot of bang for our buck by spending our money well and producing our shows really well and also by acquiring the right content.And the floodgates have opened a little more on licensing for sure. But again, we’re very focused on the ones that we think will drive the business. So I think at our current level of spending and our current rate of growth that we’re pretty comfortable spending just behind that anticipated rate of growth.The long run bull case for Netflix isn’t just that they survive making their own content, but rather that they move on from disrupting the cable bundle to basically being the cable bundle for everything but sports (and they’re even creeping in that direction when the money and opportunity makes sense). To that end, as their streaming competitors start to falter under huge losses and challenges around customer acquisition and churn mitigation, it is natural to expect that Netflix might start leveraging its position to start buying content from studios desperate to actually make money on their shows again. The company is certainly starting to do that here and there, but Sarandos made clear that Netflix isn’t going to break its budget to seize the opportunity.That, finally, leads to my point, and the biggest takeaway from the reporting change: I think that Netflix is well-placed to achieve that bull thesis, but I get the impression the company internally realizes it has a lot of building to do to get there. Specifically, the company came to an ad-based offering very late, and had to scramble to get it out the door, including partnering with Microsoft. That’s not an optimal solution for the long run; Netflix needs to build its own platform even as it builds up its ad-supported user base. Meanwhile, I definitely get the impression that Peters in particular thinks that the recommendation algorithm can be a lot better, which is another way of saying that Netflix needs to do a better job of maximizing leverage on its existing content spend before it ups its budget to buy more.Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedWhy Netflix Should Sell AdsDateMonday, April 4, 2022Netflix’s New ChapterDateMonday, January 23, 2023Netflix FlexesDateTuesday, January 22, 2019←An Interview with Michael Morton About E-Commerce Winners and LosersMeta and Open→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe did ten questions on the last ten (actually 11) years of Stratechery. Topics including what I got wrong, and right; the day one launch story; the last decade of publishing on the Internet; and the long-term impact of AI on publishing.On to the Update:Netflix EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Netflix showed that its password-sharing crackdown continues to bear fruit, delivering its strongest first-quarter customer additions since the pandemic and further strengthening its position as the dominant global streamer. The company added 9.33 million subscribers in the first quarter, more than five times the number of customers it added during the same period a year earlier, with its efforts to limit password sharing continuing to bear fruit. Netflix began limiting password sharing in earnest about a year ago. Netflix has spent the last year rolling out that initiative, working to expand its ad business and changing its line-up of prices and plans to better position itself for the future.Early next year, the company plans to stop providing investors quarterly membership numbers and the average revenue generated per member, saying it now has multiple pricing tiers in a variety of markets. Netflix said it would add annual revenue guidance.The next day, fromBloomberg:Netflix Inc. shares tumbled the most in two years on Friday as a weak forecast for revenue and a warning that the streaming giant will stop reporting subscriber numbers in 2025 overshadowed an otherwise strong start to the year. The stock dropped 9.1%, to $555.04 in New York at the close, the biggest decline since April 2022. Still, the shares have gained 14% this year.Expectations for Netflix’s first quarter had soared in recent days, as one analyst after another published rosy forecasts. And while Netflix did indeed beat those expectations, posting its best start to the year since 2020, it signaled a more temperate pace of growth ahead. In its letter to investors Thursday, the company said subscriber gains will be lower this period, while revenue will increase 16%.Netflix also said it will stop reporting paid quarterly membership and revenue per subscriber, starting the first quarter of next year. Those metrics have long been the primary way Wall Street evaluated the company’s performance, but Netflix has tried to shift the focus to traditional measures like sales and profit. Management will continue to report major subscriber milestones.I am, as a rule, a big advocate of more disclosures from public companies, for selfish reasons if nothing else! At the same time, I’m somewhat sympathetic to Netflix’s decision here;I wrote two years ago, when the company stopped giving subscriber forecasts:On one hand, I’m always grumpy when companies decrease the amount of information they are disclosing; on the other hand, this specific number is read into so deeply that I’m honestly not sure how much value it provides other than to speculators. Of course not giving a prediction may only make the swings worse, but, as Netflix does fairly note, the company’s monetization capabilities will, particularly with the addition of ads, be increasingly independent of subscriber numbers.That noted, one couldn’t escape the feeling that the positive numbers had the same psychological impact on Netflix’s executives: both the letter to shareholders andearnings interviewwere extremely positive, filled with both optimism and a good amount of back-patting about how well Netflix was positioned going forward.The wild swings around Netflix’s subscribers numbers really were ridiculous, especially when you look back at misses from years ago; I wrote after one of those missesin 2018:Of course that 2016 quarter ended up being a blip, and any investors that bailed on the company paid the price in missed upside. From a structural perspective, it seems reasonable to think that will likely happen again: despite the imminent entrance of Disney and the increased investment AT&T has promised in HBO, Netflix, by virtue of having a huge head start and huge user base advantage, along with a demonstrated capability to both grow subscribers even as it increases prices, is well-placed to leverage its role as an Aggregator.It’s been six years since then, and Netflix has weathered COVID and the rise of a whole host of competing streaming services, and in the end they announced these changes in a quarter where they absolutely smashed subscriber projections. It’s good to go out on top! Still, there is reason to believe that this really is the last hurrah as far as member growth is concerned; CFO Spencer Neumann saidon the earnings callin response to a question about future revenue growth:But when you think about the outlook for the year, it’s in terms of the mix of revenue growth. We expect it will be pretty similar to what you see in Q1, where it’s primarily driven by member growth because of the kind of full year impact of paid sharing rolling through the year and continued strong acquisition and retention trends.In other words, the Wall Street Journal had it right: the password crackdown is working. The bad news is that this is a growth mechanism that is finite — and, to the extent that it is the biggest driver of new members, a reason to stop reporting them; the good news is that the fact that password sharers are in fact signing up for new plans is evidence that Netflix’s viewers think the service is worth it.Netflix’s Reporting ChangeThis was Netflix’s explanation for the change in reporting from theirshareholder letter:As we’ve noted in previous letters, we’re focused on revenue and operating margin as our primary financial metrics — and engagement (i.e. time spent) as our best proxy for customer satisfaction. In our early days, when we had little revenue or profit, membership growth was a strong indicator of our future potential. But now we’re generating very substantial profit and free cash flow (FCF). We are also developing new revenue streams like advertising and our extra member feature, so memberships are just one component of our growth. In addition, as we’ve evolved our pricing and plans from a single to multiple tiers with different price points depending on the country, each incremental paid membership has a very different business impact. It’s why we stopped providing quarterly paid membership guidance in 2023 and, starting next year with our Q1’25 earnings, we will stop reporting quarterly membership numbers and ARM.We’ll continue to provide a breakout of revenue by region each quarter and the F/X impact to complement our financials. For guidance, we’ll add annual revenue guidance on top of what we already provide today: our annual operating margin and free cash flow forecast and forecasts for quarterly revenue, operating income, net income, and EPS. We’ll also announce major subscriber milestones as we cross them.Success in streaming starts with engagement. When people watch more, they stick around longer (retention), recommend Netflix more often (acquisition) and place a higher value on our service. It’s why we’ve been providing progressively more information on engagement, starting with our Top 10 weekly and most popular lists and more recently our bi-annual report into viewing on Netflix (which covers ~99% of all video watch time on our service). This is more information than any of our competitors provide, and we expect to provide even more over time.First, I think Netflix’s reasoning here is by-and-large legitimate: a member just doesn’t mean what it used to, particularly with the increased complexity of their offering.Second, the majority of Netflix’s member growth has and will continue to come from developing markets with much lower price plans. Those members are good to have, particularly those who mostly join to get access to Netflix content that is being produced for other markets; they’re just more leverage on content spending that would have happened anyways, but also aren’t necessarily indicative of the core health of the business.Third, there is an argument that Netflix is in fact embracing the final boss of being an Internet company by focusing on engagement as their most important KPI. On the Internet the only scarce resource is time and attention; that is what Netflix’s management is setting as their north star (more on this below).All that noted, this metric was useful in measuring the progress Netflix was making in their advertising business in particular. Note this answer from co-CEO Greg Peters from the earnings call in response to a question about the spread in pricing between the ad-supported and non-ad-supported tiers:We don’t have a fixed operator position on sort of the optimal pricing spread. And much like we’ve done with price changes in general, we really use signals from our customers, things like plan take rate, conversion rates, churn to guide us along an iterative path to get to that right pricing. And I think it’s also probably worth noting that sort of right pricing is not really a static position. As we continue to evolve and improve our offering, that’s going to change as well. But I think a good general guideline for us in the long term is that it would be healthy for us to land overall monetization between our ads and non-ad offerings and roughly equivalent position. So that really comes down to what works best for any given member, and it’s really a member choice about which plan they think serves them the best.What Peters is saying is that the subscription price for the ad-free tier should equal the subscription price + ad revenue per user for the ad-supported tier; going forward we will know the subscription prices but it’s going to be a lot more difficult to track just how well the advertising efforts are going without knowing the number of subscribers (for now Netflix executives admitted that the advertising tier is a drag on ARPU as the amount of inventory they have outpaces the demand from advertisers).Netflix’s Waiting GameAt one point in the earnings call, an analyst asked why Netflix was growing members, above-and-beyond the password crackdown; I thought the answers provided an amusing view into why it is that Netflix has two CEOs. Co-CEO Ted Sarandos said:That’s a great question. I would say the thing we’re doing is we’re thrilling our members. That’s the thing we set out about why we all bounced out of bed in the morning. I look at this last quarter, 8 of the first 11 weeks of the year, we’ve had the #1 film on streaming. 9 of the first 11 weeks, we’ve had the #1 original series, and I’m talking about hits like Avatar: The Last Airbender, Grasela, Damsel, Love is Blind, [Three Body] Problem, all of that just in the last few months. So this consistent and dependable and expected drumbeat of hit shows, films and games, that’s the business that we’re in. And that’s what we have to do every day, and we have to do it all over the world.Peters added:Yes, I think that’s right. I mean the fundamental is all those amazing series, film, games, live events. But a key component of our something that we’re seeking to get constantly better at is that ability to find audiences for all those great titles. Part of making that happen is just the number of people who look to us for entertainment. We mentioned over 0.5 billion people in this letter. But part of that is that product we do to effectively connect those folks with titles that they will love, which then enables us to find the largest audiences for those titles that we think that they could get anywhere. And I think as you mentioned, Ted, this applies globally to titles from all over the world, which is super exciting.In short, the content guy thinks it’s the content; the tech guy thinks it’s the recommendations! I think, though, Peters’ point is notable, particularly given the large section of the shareholder letter focused on recommendations:At the root of strong and enduring engagement is fandom. It’s why our product and marketing are all designed to fuel fandom by helping members discover their next obsession. Our most direct promotional tool is Netflix itself, which has become the go to place for so many people looking for entertainment. Our trailers, for example, generate over 6B impressions every month on Netflix — more than 40x what they get on YouTube. Across Netflix, upcoming shows and movies received over 25B impressions in March alone, helping to build anticipation for what’s next. Features like “Remind Me,” which notifies members as soon as a title premieres, enable us to turn all that interest into action. And, once titles are released, we believe our personalized recommendations are much more effective at finding audiences than relying on the techniques used in traditional entertainment. It’s how shows like Squid Game and Lupin, or films like Society of the Snow and Troll go viral — reaching much bigger audiences than would ever have been possible in the past.There is one more tidbit from the earnings call (which was moderated by Netflix’s vice president of finance, corporate development, and investor relations) I want to highlight, before I get to my point:I’ll now transition us to several questions around content. And this first one, I’ll direct to Ted. It’s a rare question around why don’t we spend more. Given what seems like a very favorable current backdrop for Netflix to acquire and license content, why not lean in even more aggressively? Could it make sense to spend more than $17 billion in cash content this year?Yes. Independent of the availability of licensed content, you should look at it — I think we’re — we’ve always been very disciplined about the way we invest in the business and how we grow it. And we can get a lot of bang for our buck by spending our money well and producing our shows really well and also by acquiring the right content.And the floodgates have opened a little more on licensing for sure. But again, we’re very focused on the ones that we think will drive the business. So I think at our current level of spending and our current rate of growth that we’re pretty comfortable spending just behind that anticipated rate of growth.The long run bull case for Netflix isn’t just that they survive making their own content, but rather that they move on from disrupting the cable bundle to basically being the cable bundle for everything but sports (and they’re even creeping in that direction when the money and opportunity makes sense). To that end, as their streaming competitors start to falter under huge losses and challenges around customer acquisition and churn mitigation, it is natural to expect that Netflix might start leveraging its position to start buying content from studios desperate to actually make money on their shows again. The company is certainly starting to do that here and there, but Sarandos made clear that Netflix isn’t going to break its budget to seize the opportunity.That, finally, leads to my point, and the biggest takeaway from the reporting change: I think that Netflix is well-placed to achieve that bull thesis, but I get the impression the company internally realizes it has a lot of building to do to get there. Specifically, the company came to an ad-based offering very late, and had to scramble to get it out the door, including partnering with Microsoft. That’s not an optimal solution for the long run; Netflix needs to build its own platform even as it builds up its ad-supported user base. Meanwhile, I definitely get the impression that Peters in particular thinks that the recommendation algorithm can be a lot better, which is another way of saying that Netflix needs to do a better job of maximizing leverage on its existing content spend before it ups its budget to buy more.Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content.I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email OnThursday’s episode of Sharp Techwe did ten questions on the last ten (actually 11) years of Stratechery. Topics including what I got wrong, and right; the day one launch story; the last decade of publishing on the Internet; and the long-term impact of AI on publishing. Netflix showed that its password-sharing crackdown continues to bear fruit, delivering its strongest first-quarter customer additions since the pandemic and further strengthening its position as the dominant global streamer. The company added 9.33 million subscribers in the first quarter, more than five times the number of customers it added during the same period a year earlier, with its efforts to limit password sharing continuing to bear fruit. Netflix began limiting password sharing in earnest about a year ago. Netflix has spent the last year rolling out that initiative, working to expand its ad business and changing its line-up of prices and plans to better position itself for the future. Early next year, the company plans to stop providing investors quarterly membership numbers and the average revenue generated per member, saying it now has multiple pricing tiers in a variety of markets. Netflix said it would add annual revenue guidance. Netflix Inc. shares tumbled the most in two years on Friday as a weak forecast for revenue and a warning that the streaming giant will stop reporting subscriber numbers in 2025 overshadowed an otherwise strong start to the year. The stock dropped 9.1%, to $555.04 in New York at the close, the biggest decline since April 2022. Still, the shares have gained 14% this year. Expectations for Netflix’s first quarter had soared in recent days, as one analyst after another published rosy forecasts. And while Netflix did indeed beat those expectations, posting its best start to the year since 2020, it signaled a more temperate pace of growth ahead. In its letter to investors Thursday, the company said subscriber gains will be lower this period, while revenue will increase 16%. Netflix also said it will stop reporting paid quarterly membership and revenue per subscriber, starting the first quarter of next year. Those metrics have long been the primary way Wall Street evaluated the company’s performance, but Netflix has tried to shift the focus to traditional measures like sales and profit. Management will continue to report major subscriber milestones. I am, as a rule, a big advocate of more disclosures from public companies, for selfish reasons if nothing else! At the same time, I’m somewhat sympathetic to Netflix’s decision here;I wrote two years ago, when the company stopped giving subscriber forecasts: On one hand, I’m always grumpy when companies decrease the amount of information they are disclosing; on the other hand, this specific number is read into so deeply that I’m honestly not sure how much value it provides other than to speculators. Of course not giving a prediction may only make the swings worse, but, as Netflix does fairly note, the company’s monetization capabilities will, particularly with the addition of ads, be increasingly independent of subscriber numbers. That noted, one couldn’t escape the feeling that the positive numbers had the same psychological impact on Netflix’s executives: both the letter to shareholders andearnings interviewwere extremely positive, filled with both optimism and a good amount of back-patting about how well Netflix was positioned going forward. Of course that 2016 quarter ended up being a blip, and any investors that bailed on the company paid the price in missed upside. From a structural perspective, it seems reasonable to think that will likely happen again: despite the imminent entrance of Disney and the increased investment AT&T has promised in HBO, Netflix, by virtue of having a huge head start and huge user base advantage, along with a demonstrated capability to both grow subscribers even as it increases prices, is well-placed to leverage its role as an Aggregator. It’s been six years since then, and Netflix has weathered COVID and the rise of a whole host of competing streaming services, and in the end they announced these changes in a quarter where they absolutely smashed subscriber projections. It’s good to go out on top! Still, there is reason to believe that this really is the last hurrah as far as member growth is concerned; CFO Spencer Neumann saidon the earnings callin response to a question about future revenue growth: But when you think about the outlook for the year, it’s in terms of the mix of revenue growth. We expect it will be pretty similar to what you see in Q1, where it’s primarily driven by member growth because of the kind of full year impact of paid sharing rolling through the year and continued strong acquisition and retention trends. In other words, the Wall Street Journal had it right: the password crackdown is working. The bad news is that this is a growth mechanism that is finite — and, to the extent that it is the biggest driver of new members, a reason to stop reporting them; the good news is that the fact that password sharers are in fact signing up for new plans is evidence that Netflix’s viewers think the service is worth it. As we’ve noted in previous letters, we’re focused on revenue and operating margin as our primary financial metrics — and engagement (i.e. time spent) as our best proxy for customer satisfaction. In our early days, when we had little revenue or profit, membership growth was a strong indicator of our future potential. But now we’re generating very substantial profit and free cash flow (FCF). We are also developing new revenue streams like advertising and our extra member feature, so memberships are just one component of our growth. In addition, as we’ve evolved our pricing and plans from a single to multiple tiers with different price points depending on the country, each incremental paid membership has a very different business impact. It’s why we stopped providing quarterly paid membership guidance in 2023 and, starting next year with our Q1’25 earnings, we will stop reporting quarterly membership numbers and ARM. We’ll continue to provide a breakout of revenue by region each quarter and the F/X impact to complement our financials. For guidance, we’ll add annual revenue guidance on top of what we already provide today: our annual operating margin and free cash flow forecast and forecasts for quarterly revenue, operating income, net income, and EPS. We’ll also announce major subscriber milestones as we cross them. Success in streaming starts with engagement. When people watch more, they stick around longer (retention), recommend Netflix more often (acquisition) and place a higher value on our service. It’s why we’ve been providing progressively more information on engagement, starting with our Top 10 weekly and most popular lists and more recently our bi-annual report into viewing on Netflix (which covers ~99% of all video watch time on our service). This is more information than any of our competitors provide, and we expect to provide even more over time. Second, the majority of Netflix’s member growth has and will continue to come from developing markets with much lower price plans. Those members are good to have, particularly those who mostly join to get access to Netflix content that is being produced for other markets; they’re just more leverage on content spending that would have happened anyways, but also aren’t necessarily indicative of the core health of the business. Third, there is an argument that Netflix is in fact embracing the final boss of being an Internet company by focusing on engagement as their most important KPI. On the Internet the only scarce resource is time and attention; that is what Netflix’s management is setting as their north star (more on this below). All that noted, this metric was useful in measuring the progress Netflix was making in their advertising business in particular. Note this answer from co-CEO Greg Peters from the earnings call in response to a question about the spread in pricing between the ad-supported and non-ad-supported tiers: We don’t have a fixed operator position on sort of the optimal pricing spread. And much like we’ve done with price changes in general, we really use signals from our customers, things like plan take rate, conversion rates, churn to guide us along an iterative path to get to that right pricing. And I think it’s also probably worth noting that sort of right pricing is not really a static position. As we continue to evolve and improve our offering, that’s going to change as well. But I think a good general guideline for us in the long term is that it would be healthy for us to land overall monetization between our ads and non-ad offerings and roughly equivalent position. So that really comes down to what works best for any given member, and it’s really a member choice about which plan they think serves them the best. What Peters is saying is that the subscription price for the ad-free tier should equal the subscription price + ad revenue per user for the ad-supported tier; going forward we will know the subscription prices but it’s going to be a lot more difficult to track just how well the advertising efforts are going without knowing the number of subscribers (for now Netflix executives admitted that the advertising tier is a drag on ARPU as the amount of inventory they have outpaces the demand from advertisers). At one point in the earnings call, an analyst asked why Netflix was growing members, above-and-beyond the password crackdown; I thought the answers provided an amusing view into why it is that Netflix has two CEOs. Co-CEO Ted Sarandos said: That’s a great question. I would say the thing we’re doing is we’re thrilling our members. That’s the thing we set out about why we all bounced out of bed in the morning. I look at this last quarter, 8 of the first 11 weeks of the year, we’ve had the #1 film on streaming. 9 of the first 11 weeks, we’ve had the #1 original series, and I’m talking about hits like Avatar: The Last Airbender, Grasela, Damsel, Love is Blind, [Three Body] Problem, all of that just in the last few months. So this consistent and dependable and expected drumbeat of hit shows, films and games, that’s the business that we’re in. And that’s what we have to do every day, and we have to do it all over the world. Yes, I think that’s right. I mean the fundamental is all those amazing series, film, games, live events. But a key component of our something that we’re seeking to get constantly better at is that ability to find audiences for all those great titles. Part of making that happen is just the number of people who look to us for entertainment. We mentioned over 0.5 billion people in this letter. But part of that is that product we do to effectively connect those folks with titles that they will love, which then enables us to find the largest audiences for those titles that we think that they could get anywhere. And I think as you mentioned, Ted, this applies globally to titles from all over the world, which is super exciting. In short, the content guy thinks it’s the content; the tech guy thinks it’s the recommendations! I think, though, Peters’ point is notable, particularly given the large section of the shareholder letter focused on recommendations: At the root of strong and enduring engagement is fandom. It’s why our product and marketing are all designed to fuel fandom by helping members discover their next obsession. Our most direct promotional tool is Netflix itself, which has become the go to place for so many people looking for entertainment. Our trailers, for example, generate over 6B impressions every month on Netflix — more than 40x what they get on YouTube. Across Netflix, upcoming shows and movies received over 25B impressions in March alone, helping to build anticipation for what’s next. Features like “Remind Me,” which notifies members as soon as a title premieres, enable us to turn all that interest into action. And, once titles are released, we believe our personalized recommendations are much more effective at finding audiences than relying on the techniques used in traditional entertainment. It’s how shows like Squid Game and Lupin, or films like Society of the Snow and Troll go viral — reaching much bigger audiences than would ever have been possible in the past. There is one more tidbit from the earnings call (which was moderated by Netflix’s vice president of finance, corporate development, and investor relations) I want to highlight, before I get to my point: I’ll now transition us to several questions around content. And this first one, I’ll direct to Ted. It’s a rare question around why don’t we spend more. Given what seems like a very favorable current backdrop for Netflix to acquire and license content, why not lean in even more aggressively? Could it make sense to spend more than $17 billion in cash content this year? Yes. Independent of the availability of licensed content, you should look at it — I think we’re — we’ve always been very disciplined about the way we invest in the business and how we grow it. And we can get a lot of bang for our buck by spending our money well and producing our shows really well and also by acquiring the right content. And the floodgates have opened a little more on licensing for sure. But again, we’re very focused on the ones that we think will drive the business. So I think at our current level of spending and our current rate of growth that we’re pretty comfortable spending just behind that anticipated rate of growth. The long run bull case for Netflix isn’t just that they survive making their own content, but rather that they move on from disrupting the cable bundle to basically being the cable bundle for everything but sports (and they’re even creeping in that direction when the money and opportunity makes sense). To that end, as their streaming competitors start to falter under huge losses and challenges around customer acquisition and churn mitigation, it is natural to expect that Netflix might start leveraging its position to start buying content from studios desperate to actually make money on their shows again. The company is certainly starting to do that here and there, but Sarandos made clear that Netflix isn’t going to break its budget to seize the opportunity. That, finally, leads to my point, and the biggest takeaway from the reporting change: I think that Netflix is well-placed to achieve that bull thesis, but I get the impression the company internally realizes it has a lot of building to do to get there. Specifically, the company came to an ad-based offering very late, and had to scramble to get it out the door, including partnering with Microsoft. That’s not an optimal solution for the long run; Netflix needs to build its own platform even as it builds up its ad-supported user base. Meanwhile, I definitely get the impression that Peters in particular thinks that the recommendation algorithm can be a lot better, which is another way of saying that Netflix needs to do a better job of maximizing leverage on its existing content spend before it ups its budget to buy more. Basically, I get the sense that Netflix is hunkering down a bit for a slower growth consolidation phase, where it builds up the tech for recommendations and ads (which are very much related!) in a way that will allow it to serve even more content to even more people. That’s not necessarily an approach that is going to lead to outsized subscriber growth in the short term, particularly once the password sharing crackdown is over; it is something that can lead to solid profit and free cash flow numbers as long as they stay disciplined in their spending, especially if improved recommendations can drive even deeper engagement with their existing content. I also think that Netflix can afford to wait: its competitors are seeking to sell the occasional show to get cash to continue funding their streaming dreams; why should Netflix go out of its way to help fund those? The company can be selective with the content it acquires, improve its tech, and bide its time until competing services finally give up on being streamers and accept their role as studios, on Netflix’s terms, and on a platform that is truly ready to be the only TV you need. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025