# [PODCAST] The Universal Basic Income experiment in Kenya

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/01/10/1197956397/give-directly-universal-basic-income-poverty-kenya
**Atlas ID**: 229480
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.844403

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop The experiment to give people in poverty cash (Universal Basic Income version)  : Planet MoneyThere's this fundamental question in economics that has proven really hard to answer: What's a good way to help people out of poverty? The old-school way was to fund programs that would support very particular things, like buying cows for a village, giving people business training, or building schools.But over the past few decades, there has been a new idea: Could you help people who don't have money by ... just giving them money? We covered this question in a segment ofThis American Lifethat originally ran in2013.Economists who studied the question foundthat giving people cash had positive effects on recipients' economic and psychological well-being. Maybe they bought a cow that could earn them money each week. Maybe they could replace their grass roofs with metal roofs that didn't need fixing every so often.The success of just giving people in poverty cash has spawned a whole set of new questions that economists are now trying to answer. Like, if we do just give money, what's the best way to do that? Do you just give it all at once? Or do you dole it out over time? And it turns out...a huge new studyon giving cash was just released and it's got a lot of answers.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe Universal Basic Income experiment in KenyaJanuary 10, 20245:16 PM ETByDave Blanchard,Amanda Aronczyk,Emma Peaslee,Jess JiangThe Universal Basic Income experiment in KenyaListen·24:0624:06TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197956397/1224065833" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imagePM Images/Getty ImagesPM Images/Getty ImagesThere's this fundamental question in economics that has proven really hard to answer: What's a good way to help people out of poverty? The old-school way was to fund programs that would support very particular things, like buying cows for a village, giving people business training, or building schools.But over the past few decades, there has been a new idea: Could you help people who don't have money by ... just giving them money? We covered this question in a segment ofThis American Lifethat originally ran in2013.Economists who studied the question foundthat giving people cash had positive effects on recipients' economic and psychological well-being. Maybe they bought a cow that could earn them money each week. Maybe they could replace their grass roofs with metal roofs that didn't need fixing every so often.Sponsor MessagePlanet MoneyEpisode 480: The Charity That Just Gives People MoneyThe success of just giving people in poverty cash has spawned a whole set of new questions that economists are now trying to answer. Like, if we do just give money, what's the best way to do that? Do you just give it all at once? Or do you dole it out over time? And it turns out...a huge new studyon giving cash was just released and it's got a lot of answers.For more:I Was Just Trying To Help - This American LifeThe Charity That Just Gives People Money - Planet MoneyWhat Happens When You Just Give Money To Poor People? Planet MoneyShort-term Impact of Unconditional Cash Transfers to the Poor: Experimental Evidence from Kenya - The Quarterly Journal of EconomicsResults From The City That Just Gave Away Cash - Planet MoneyThe Basic Income Experiment - Planet MoneyPeople can do more with lump sum of money than payments, experiment in Kenya suggests - NPREarly findings from the world's largest UBI study - GiveDirectlyThis episode is hosted by Dave Blanchard and Amanda Aronczyk. The reporting for the first part of this episode was originally done for This American Life by Jacob Goldstein and David Kestenbaum. Our show today was produced by Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Race to Nowhere," "Spanish Fruit," and "Spanish Fire"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The Universal Basic Income experiment in KenyaListen·24:0624:06TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197956397/1224065833" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The Universal Basic Income experiment in KenyaListen·24:0624:06TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197956397/1224065833" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197956397/1224065833" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imagePM Images/Getty ImagesPM Images/Getty ImagesThere's this fundamental question in economics that has proven really hard to answer: What's a good way to help people out of poverty? The old-school way was to fund programs that would support very particular things, like buying cows for a village, giving people business training, or building schools.But over the past few decades, there has been a new idea: Could you help people who don't have money by ... just giving them money? We covered this question in a segment ofThis American Lifethat originally ran in2013.Economists who studied the question foundthat giving people cash had positive effects on recipients' economic and psychological well-being. Maybe they bought a cow that could earn them money each week. Maybe they could replace their grass roofs with metal roofs that didn't need fixing every so often.Sponsor MessagePlanet MoneyEpisode 480: The Charity That Just Gives People MoneyThe success of just giving people in poverty cash has spawned a whole set of new questions that economists are now trying to answer. Like, if we do just give money, what's the best way to do that? Do you just give it all at once? Or do you dole it out over time? And it turns out...a huge new studyon giving cash was just released and it's got a lot of answers.For more:I Was Just Trying To Help - This American LifeThe Charity That Just Gives People Money - Planet MoneyWhat Happens When You Just Give Money To Poor People? Planet MoneyShort-term Impact of Unconditional Cash Transfers to the Poor: Experimental Evidence from Kenya - The Quarterly Journal of EconomicsResults From The City That Just Gave Away Cash - Planet MoneyThe Basic Income Experiment - Planet MoneyPeople can do more with lump sum of money than payments, experiment in Kenya suggests - NPREarly findings from the world's largest UBI study - GiveDirectlyThis episode is hosted by Dave Blanchard and Amanda Aronczyk. The reporting for the first part of this episode was originally done for This American Life by Jacob Goldstein and David Kestenbaum. Our show today was produced by Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: NPR Source Audio - "Race to Nowhere," "Spanish Fruit," and "Spanish Fire" There's this fundamental question in economics that has proven really hard to answer: What's a good way to help people out of poverty? The old-school way was to fund programs that would support very particular things, like buying cows for a village, giving people business training, or building schools. But over the past few decades, there has been a new idea: Could you help people who don't have money by ... just giving them money? We covered this question in a segment ofThis American Lifethat originally ran in2013.Economists who studied the question foundthat giving people cash had positive effects on recipients' economic and psychological well-being. Maybe they bought a cow that could earn them money each week. Maybe they could replace their grass roofs with metal roofs that didn't need fixing every so often. The success of just giving people in poverty cash has spawned a whole set of new questions that economists are now trying to answer. Like, if we do just give money, what's the best way to do that? Do you just give it all at once? Or do you dole it out over time? And it turns out...a huge new studyon giving cash was just released and it's got a lot of answers. This episode is hosted by Dave Blanchard and Amanda Aronczyk. The reporting for the first part of this episode was originally done for This American Life by Jacob Goldstein and David Kestenbaum. Our show today was produced by Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Cena Loffredo. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra