# [PODCAST] Google Earnings, YouTube Financials, AI Optimism

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/google-earnings-youtube-financials-ai-optimism/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.rztNSJRJzaIUH6n1UJmSMoV7S20QnxUpN2JW_0CGHEyEluItnIZwwaEKC6oac_n0fdMOIY1r6vaz8bx44EiQIdLoevuLBoQgjwczVFv3IMqFapSeEGOhUS7sN4sKiUeEzc0tKGjZ7ZkRVyLW4A4RtNLiz4yCxtGT9wQHw5JE9qp6qc-R8c6heRJwFN4eaRyWIQKnp9anqJR7QvMxp7WQF4xgJ1dlQdtLLRnKBOTi9Tgs99M1Jxuq9utCks-WrEe8AfjO42W7OkvBAPz1Hh4W7TZM3nFm7O8GYlDXcxs3UB6Mg0t2E7vsLwiMTafQUEDH8fsmUETWe3iADlQgEVTl4A
**Atlas ID**: 229673
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.934756

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirGoogle Earnings, YouTube Financials, AI OptimismWednesday, October 30, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techdiscussed AI and enterprise software, AI podcasts, and a discussion about where we get information.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Google parent Alphabet Inc. showed on Tuesday that an expensive foray into artificial intelligence is starting to pay off, delivering better-than-expected traction for its cloud computing business and driving more usage for its flagship search engine. Reporting healthy gains in both revenue and profit, Google did much to allay Wall Street concerns that the company has squandered an early lead in AI, and that its heavy investments to catch the likes of Microsoft Corp. and OpenAI might not yield dividends. Revenue, excluding partner payouts, increased to $74.6 billion, up about 16% from the year-ago quarter and surpassing the $72.9 billion analysts predicted on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was $2.12 per share, the company said Tuesday in a statement, compared with estimates of $1.84 per share.As its main search business matures, Google is betting on growth from its cloud division, which supplies computing power, software and services to other companies. Google is drawing more cloud customers using its AI expertise to gain ground on larger rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft, making inroads by signing on fast-growing AI startups — some of which were founded by former Googlers — as clients…Sales in the cloud division jumped to $11.4 billion, a 35% rise from the year-ago period and better than analysts had projected. Google is third in the market, but there is room for it to grow alongside Amazon and Microsoft, Ido Caspi, a research analyst at Global X ETFs, wrote in an email. “Increasing enterprise AI workloads will continue to bolster cloud revenues,” Caspi said.Google Cloud Platform was absolutely the standout of these earnings; here is the division’s revenue growth ever since it became a separately reported segment:Remember, though, that not all growth is created equal; I notedin Januarythat the up-tick in growth then was due to a price increase for Google Workspace. That is why this comment from new CFO Anat Ashkenazi’s prepared remarkson the earnings callwas so important:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 35% to $11.4 billion in the third quarter, reflecting accelerated growth in GCP across AI infrastructure, generative AI solutions and core GCP products. Once again, GCP grew at a rate that was higher than cloud overall. We also saw strong Google Workspace growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat.Notice that Workspace price increases are still a driver of this growth, but that is now outpaced by GCP growth, some amount of which is obviously AI. CEO Sundar Pichai said in his prepared remarks:Next, Google Cloud. I’m very pleased with our growth. This business has real momentum and the overall opportunity is increasing as customers embrace GenAI. We generated Q3 revenues of $11.4 billion, up 35% over last year with operating margins of 17%. Our technology leadership and AI portfolio are helping us attract new customers, win larger deals and drive 30% deeper product adoption with existing customers.The “deeper product adoption with existing customers” is where I suspect most of the AI growth is found; the big question in terms of the long-term sustainability of this growth is how many new customers actually come to Google to take advantage of their integrated infrastructure. Regardless, the other big payoff of increased revenue is better margins:That is a very nice uptick in profit, and exactly what you would expect from a big revenue jump for a business predicated on fixed costs. That noted, we’re still very much in the middle of the AI build-out, so those costs are going to be going up as that capital expenditure is depreciated. All that, though, is in the future: for now this is an extremely encouraging result.Google’s advertising business, meanwhile, was just ok:Both Search and YouTube were coming off of a tough year-over-year comp, which is to say these are still very healthy businesses, they just weren’t the driver of this big beat.YouTube FinancialsWhat was notable was this tidbit about YouTube from Pichai:Moving now to YouTube. For the first time ever, YouTube’s combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters has surpassed $50 billion. Together, YouTube TV, NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube Music Premium are driving subscription growth for the platform. And we are leaning into the living room experience with multi-view and a new option for creators to organize content into episodes and seasons, similar to traditional TV. At Made on YouTube, we announced that Google DeepMind’s most capable model for video generation VO is coming to YouTube Shorts to help creators later this year.A pedantic note to start: I continue to believe that Google’s YouTube reporting is in violation of SEC standards, which mandate that companies disclose profitability for major divisions that report to the CEO. I explainedin this 2020 Updatewhen Google first reported anything YouTube related:These new disclosures shouldn’t have been a surprise to Stratechery readers; after Sundar Pichai became the CEO of all of Alphabet, I noted inThe Daily Updatethat the company would likely be required to disclose YouTube financials (the reason they claimed they didn’t have to previously is because Larry Page, then Alphabet’s CEO, didn’t see YouTube’s financials). Granted, I thought the SEC would have to make Google do it and that it would take a while, but it was inevitable; Google decided to act first.The reason, by the way, why I am pretty sure that Google made this move on their own is that this is the least possible amount of disclosure possible. We got YouTube’s top-line revenue number, and that’s it. No word on cost-of-revenue (a particularly interesting number in the case of YouTube given its surely massive bandwidth costs), how much it pays out to creators, how much it spends on content moderation, basically nothing that allows outsiders to understand the business other than that top line item. I strongly suspect that Google is trying to foreclose the SEC revisiting the issue.I realize this may not be the response many of you expected, given my longstanding campaign for Google to release YouTube’s financials, but again, the top-line revenue number is not sufficient to run a business, which is the exact sort of information a public company should disclose. The SEC specifically asked Google inits last correspondence on the matterabout profitability and expense information:We note in your response to prior comment 6 in your letter dated August 25, 2017 that your CODM [Chief Operating Decision Maker] receives operating results for Google on a weekly and quarterly basis. We further note in your response to prior comment 2 in your letter dated October 16, 2017 that your CODM and Board of Directors receive disaggregated advertising revenue by platform and property including YouTube. Tell us whether Larry Page and/or the Board of Directors receive any form of profitability and/or expense information for any of the product lines within Google and specifically the YouTube business in these reports or any other reports. If so, describe the nature, type and frequency of that information.Page didn’t get that information, letting Google wriggle through a loophole, but Pichai does, and the SEC should make the company release it (for Google Cloud as well).Google does now release profitability information for Google Cloud — to the company’s benefit, per the charts above — but there is still nothing about YouTube’s costs. What is notable about Pichai’s disclosure is that the situation has actually been worse than I realized: Google is breaking out YouTube’sadvertisingrevenue, but not itssubscriptionrevenue. That, though, only makes my complaint even more correct: Google isn’t disclosing the full revenue or costs of a major division of the company that reports to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. That’s a violation of SEC reporting standards!That noted, now that we have that $50 billion number, it’s pretty interesting. First, YouTube ad revenue over the past 4 quarters was $34.9 billion; that means YouTube subscription revenue was $15.1 billion. Second, the last time Google disclosed total YouTube revenue was Q2 2023 when the service hit $40 billion total revenue; at that time ad revenue was $29.1 billion, and subscription revenue was $10.9 billion. That means that subscriptions are growing faster than ads; this chart is from MoffettNathanson:Just to put these numbers in context, Netflix revenue over the last 12 months is $37.6 billion. That means that not only does YouTube have 33% more revenue than Netflix, but it has nearly half as muchsubscriptionrevenue as well.What this reinforces is a subtle detail I put in my Smiling Curve illustrations; here are the two I posted inyesterday’s Article about Meta:In both cases I was careful to ascribe more value to the at-scale network on the right. Yes, there is a lot of value in the highly differentiated left-hand side of the curve; at the same time, producing that differentiation entails meaningful costs, even as that differentiation, along with the business model to support them, limits the addressable market. The right side, meanwhile, is fully customized to every individual and operates at scale, thanks to the fact these massive platforms — like YouTube — get their content for free; that same scale and personalization, meanwhile, means they are well-suited to advertising, which makes them accessible to everyone. So it is with YouTube relative to Netflix.AI OptimismMore generally, you’ll note that a lot of the optimism I have for Meta applies to Google as well. For example, the company continues to iterate on generative ads. Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said in his prepared remarks:As I’ve said before, we believe AI will revolutionize every part of the marketing value chain. Let’s start with creative. Advertisers now use our Gemini-powered tools to build and test a larger variety of relevant creatives at scale. Audi used our AI tools to generate multiple video image and text assets in different links and orientations out of existing long-form videos. It then fed the newly generated creatives into demand gen to drive reach, traffic and booking to their driving experience. The campaign increased website visits by 80% and increased clicks by 2.7 times, delivering a lift in their sales. Last week, we updated image generation at Google Ads with our most advanced text-to-image model, Imagine 3, which we tuned using ads performance data from multiple industries to help customers produce high-quality imagery for their campaigns. Advertisers can now create even higher-performing assets for PMax, Demand Gen app and Display campaigns.PMax, or Performance Max, is Google’s black box; Schindler said:And on the PMax side, look, we continue to see success with PMax. And we see those success stories really from large advertisers, from agencies, from SMBs across marketing objectives, across different verticals. It’s very cost effective, and it really finds customers wherever they are across all the different Google channels. And with the introduction of Gemini, we added a lot of new features to PMax. For example, to deliver more powerful performance, help advertisers scale, build high-quality creative assets and so on.The ability to find customers across Google’s channels will probably be key in terms of monetizing AI Overviews and the like, and Google is the only entity that can rival Meta in terms of making that black box not just work, but work better than anything else.AI, meanwhile, will increase advertising opportunities; management spent a lot of time talking about Google Lens, for example:As you heard from Sundar, every month, Lens is used for almost 20 billion visual searches with 1 in 4 of these searches having commercial intent. In early October, we announced product search on Google Lens. And in testing this feature, we found that shoppers are more likely to engage with content in this new format. We’re also seeing that people are turning to Lens more often to run complex multimodal queries, voicing a question or inputting text in addition to a visual. Given these new user behaviors, earlier this month, we announced the rollout of shopping ads above and alongside relevant Lens visual search results to help better connect consumers and businesses.This is purely additive, and is enabled by AI. It’s also available on smartphones now (and oh yeah, did I mention that Google, unlike Meta, controls a smartphone platform?). AI, meanwhile, can also help increase signal on YouTube. I thought this bit from Schindler was interesting:We’re also using AI to greatly improve recommendations on YouTube. Driven by Gemini, our large language models have a deeper understanding of video content and viewers’ preferences. As a result, they can recommend more relevant, fresher and personalized content to the viewer.The next step, obviously, is to use that signal for targeting, and, similar to what I posited for Meta, eventually make content itself into ads.In short, even if investors are worried about AI’s impact on search, there are huge swathes of Google’s business that have a lot of AI-derived upside; more importantly, the company is starting to move more quickly, which increases the chances that they simply figure out AI search monetization themselves. Sure, there might be a margin hit, but the company has a lot of places to make that revenue up, and this quarter suggests they are doing better at that than many realized.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedGoogle’s Search for the Sweet SpotDateThursday, October 5, 2017Gemini 1.5 and Google’s NatureDateWednesday, April 10, 2024Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Meta’s AI AbundanceAn Interview with Synopsys CEO Sassine Ghazi About Designing Chips→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Google Earnings, YouTube Financials, AI OptimismWednesday, October 30, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techdiscussed AI and enterprise software, AI podcasts, and a discussion about where we get information.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Google parent Alphabet Inc. showed on Tuesday that an expensive foray into artificial intelligence is starting to pay off, delivering better-than-expected traction for its cloud computing business and driving more usage for its flagship search engine. Reporting healthy gains in both revenue and profit, Google did much to allay Wall Street concerns that the company has squandered an early lead in AI, and that its heavy investments to catch the likes of Microsoft Corp. and OpenAI might not yield dividends. Revenue, excluding partner payouts, increased to $74.6 billion, up about 16% from the year-ago quarter and surpassing the $72.9 billion analysts predicted on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was $2.12 per share, the company said Tuesday in a statement, compared with estimates of $1.84 per share.As its main search business matures, Google is betting on growth from its cloud division, which supplies computing power, software and services to other companies. Google is drawing more cloud customers using its AI expertise to gain ground on larger rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft, making inroads by signing on fast-growing AI startups — some of which were founded by former Googlers — as clients…Sales in the cloud division jumped to $11.4 billion, a 35% rise from the year-ago period and better than analysts had projected. Google is third in the market, but there is room for it to grow alongside Amazon and Microsoft, Ido Caspi, a research analyst at Global X ETFs, wrote in an email. “Increasing enterprise AI workloads will continue to bolster cloud revenues,” Caspi said.Google Cloud Platform was absolutely the standout of these earnings; here is the division’s revenue growth ever since it became a separately reported segment:Remember, though, that not all growth is created equal; I notedin Januarythat the up-tick in growth then was due to a price increase for Google Workspace. That is why this comment from new CFO Anat Ashkenazi’s prepared remarkson the earnings callwas so important:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 35% to $11.4 billion in the third quarter, reflecting accelerated growth in GCP across AI infrastructure, generative AI solutions and core GCP products. Once again, GCP grew at a rate that was higher than cloud overall. We also saw strong Google Workspace growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat.Notice that Workspace price increases are still a driver of this growth, but that is now outpaced by GCP growth, some amount of which is obviously AI. CEO Sundar Pichai said in his prepared remarks:Next, Google Cloud. I’m very pleased with our growth. This business has real momentum and the overall opportunity is increasing as customers embrace GenAI. We generated Q3 revenues of $11.4 billion, up 35% over last year with operating margins of 17%. Our technology leadership and AI portfolio are helping us attract new customers, win larger deals and drive 30% deeper product adoption with existing customers.The “deeper product adoption with existing customers” is where I suspect most of the AI growth is found; the big question in terms of the long-term sustainability of this growth is how many new customers actually come to Google to take advantage of their integrated infrastructure. Regardless, the other big payoff of increased revenue is better margins:That is a very nice uptick in profit, and exactly what you would expect from a big revenue jump for a business predicated on fixed costs. That noted, we’re still very much in the middle of the AI build-out, so those costs are going to be going up as that capital expenditure is depreciated. All that, though, is in the future: for now this is an extremely encouraging result.Google’s advertising business, meanwhile, was just ok:Both Search and YouTube were coming off of a tough year-over-year comp, which is to say these are still very healthy businesses, they just weren’t the driver of this big beat.YouTube FinancialsWhat was notable was this tidbit about YouTube from Pichai:Moving now to YouTube. For the first time ever, YouTube’s combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters has surpassed $50 billion. Together, YouTube TV, NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube Music Premium are driving subscription growth for the platform. And we are leaning into the living room experience with multi-view and a new option for creators to organize content into episodes and seasons, similar to traditional TV. At Made on YouTube, we announced that Google DeepMind’s most capable model for video generation VO is coming to YouTube Shorts to help creators later this year.A pedantic note to start: I continue to believe that Google’s YouTube reporting is in violation of SEC standards, which mandate that companies disclose profitability for major divisions that report to the CEO. I explainedin this 2020 Updatewhen Google first reported anything YouTube related:These new disclosures shouldn’t have been a surprise to Stratechery readers; after Sundar Pichai became the CEO of all of Alphabet, I noted inThe Daily Updatethat the company would likely be required to disclose YouTube financials (the reason they claimed they didn’t have to previously is because Larry Page, then Alphabet’s CEO, didn’t see YouTube’s financials). Granted, I thought the SEC would have to make Google do it and that it would take a while, but it was inevitable; Google decided to act first.The reason, by the way, why I am pretty sure that Google made this move on their own is that this is the least possible amount of disclosure possible. We got YouTube’s top-line revenue number, and that’s it. No word on cost-of-revenue (a particularly interesting number in the case of YouTube given its surely massive bandwidth costs), how much it pays out to creators, how much it spends on content moderation, basically nothing that allows outsiders to understand the business other than that top line item. I strongly suspect that Google is trying to foreclose the SEC revisiting the issue.I realize this may not be the response many of you expected, given my longstanding campaign for Google to release YouTube’s financials, but again, the top-line revenue number is not sufficient to run a business, which is the exact sort of information a public company should disclose. The SEC specifically asked Google inits last correspondence on the matterabout profitability and expense information:We note in your response to prior comment 6 in your letter dated August 25, 2017 that your CODM [Chief Operating Decision Maker] receives operating results for Google on a weekly and quarterly basis. We further note in your response to prior comment 2 in your letter dated October 16, 2017 that your CODM and Board of Directors receive disaggregated advertising revenue by platform and property including YouTube. Tell us whether Larry Page and/or the Board of Directors receive any form of profitability and/or expense information for any of the product lines within Google and specifically the YouTube business in these reports or any other reports. If so, describe the nature, type and frequency of that information.Page didn’t get that information, letting Google wriggle through a loophole, but Pichai does, and the SEC should make the company release it (for Google Cloud as well).Google does now release profitability information for Google Cloud — to the company’s benefit, per the charts above — but there is still nothing about YouTube’s costs. What is notable about Pichai’s disclosure is that the situation has actually been worse than I realized: Google is breaking out YouTube’sadvertisingrevenue, but not itssubscriptionrevenue. That, though, only makes my complaint even more correct: Google isn’t disclosing the full revenue or costs of a major division of the company that reports to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. That’s a violation of SEC reporting standards!That noted, now that we have that $50 billion number, it’s pretty interesting. First, YouTube ad revenue over the past 4 quarters was $34.9 billion; that means YouTube subscription revenue was $15.1 billion. Second, the last time Google disclosed total YouTube revenue was Q2 2023 when the service hit $40 billion total revenue; at that time ad revenue was $29.1 billion, and subscription revenue was $10.9 billion. That means that subscriptions are growing faster than ads; this chart is from MoffettNathanson:Just to put these numbers in context, Netflix revenue over the last 12 months is $37.6 billion. That means that not only does YouTube have 33% more revenue than Netflix, but it has nearly half as muchsubscriptionrevenue as well.What this reinforces is a subtle detail I put in my Smiling Curve illustrations; here are the two I posted inyesterday’s Article about Meta:In both cases I was careful to ascribe more value to the at-scale network on the right. Yes, there is a lot of value in the highly differentiated left-hand side of the curve; at the same time, producing that differentiation entails meaningful costs, even as that differentiation, along with the business model to support them, limits the addressable market. The right side, meanwhile, is fully customized to every individual and operates at scale, thanks to the fact these massive platforms — like YouTube — get their content for free; that same scale and personalization, meanwhile, means they are well-suited to advertising, which makes them accessible to everyone. So it is with YouTube relative to Netflix.AI OptimismMore generally, you’ll note that a lot of the optimism I have for Meta applies to Google as well. For example, the company continues to iterate on generative ads. Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said in his prepared remarks:As I’ve said before, we believe AI will revolutionize every part of the marketing value chain. Let’s start with creative. Advertisers now use our Gemini-powered tools to build and test a larger variety of relevant creatives at scale. Audi used our AI tools to generate multiple video image and text assets in different links and orientations out of existing long-form videos. It then fed the newly generated creatives into demand gen to drive reach, traffic and booking to their driving experience. The campaign increased website visits by 80% and increased clicks by 2.7 times, delivering a lift in their sales. Last week, we updated image generation at Google Ads with our most advanced text-to-image model, Imagine 3, which we tuned using ads performance data from multiple industries to help customers produce high-quality imagery for their campaigns. Advertisers can now create even higher-performing assets for PMax, Demand Gen app and Display campaigns.PMax, or Performance Max, is Google’s black box; Schindler said:And on the PMax side, look, we continue to see success with PMax. And we see those success stories really from large advertisers, from agencies, from SMBs across marketing objectives, across different verticals. It’s very cost effective, and it really finds customers wherever they are across all the different Google channels. And with the introduction of Gemini, we added a lot of new features to PMax. For example, to deliver more powerful performance, help advertisers scale, build high-quality creative assets and so on.The ability to find customers across Google’s channels will probably be key in terms of monetizing AI Overviews and the like, and Google is the only entity that can rival Meta in terms of making that black box not just work, but work better than anything else.AI, meanwhile, will increase advertising opportunities; management spent a lot of time talking about Google Lens, for example:As you heard from Sundar, every month, Lens is used for almost 20 billion visual searches with 1 in 4 of these searches having commercial intent. In early October, we announced product search on Google Lens. And in testing this feature, we found that shoppers are more likely to engage with content in this new format. We’re also seeing that people are turning to Lens more often to run complex multimodal queries, voicing a question or inputting text in addition to a visual. Given these new user behaviors, earlier this month, we announced the rollout of shopping ads above and alongside relevant Lens visual search results to help better connect consumers and businesses.This is purely additive, and is enabled by AI. It’s also available on smartphones now (and oh yeah, did I mention that Google, unlike Meta, controls a smartphone platform?). AI, meanwhile, can also help increase signal on YouTube. I thought this bit from Schindler was interesting:We’re also using AI to greatly improve recommendations on YouTube. Driven by Gemini, our large language models have a deeper understanding of video content and viewers’ preferences. As a result, they can recommend more relevant, fresher and personalized content to the viewer.The next step, obviously, is to use that signal for targeting, and, similar to what I posited for Meta, eventually make content itself into ads.In short, even if investors are worried about AI’s impact on search, there are huge swathes of Google’s business that have a lot of AI-derived upside; more importantly, the company is starting to move more quickly, which increases the chances that they simply figure out AI search monetization themselves. Sure, there might be a margin hit, but the company has a lot of places to make that revenue up, and this quarter suggests they are doing better at that than many realized.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedGoogle’s Search for the Sweet SpotDateThursday, October 5, 2017Gemini 1.5 and Google’s NatureDateWednesday, April 10, 2024Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Meta’s AI AbundanceAn Interview with Synopsys CEO Sassine Ghazi About Designing Chips→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Google Earnings, YouTube Financials, AI OptimismWednesday, October 30, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techdiscussed AI and enterprise software, AI podcasts, and a discussion about where we get information.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Google parent Alphabet Inc. showed on Tuesday that an expensive foray into artificial intelligence is starting to pay off, delivering better-than-expected traction for its cloud computing business and driving more usage for its flagship search engine. Reporting healthy gains in both revenue and profit, Google did much to allay Wall Street concerns that the company has squandered an early lead in AI, and that its heavy investments to catch the likes of Microsoft Corp. and OpenAI might not yield dividends. Revenue, excluding partner payouts, increased to $74.6 billion, up about 16% from the year-ago quarter and surpassing the $72.9 billion analysts predicted on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was $2.12 per share, the company said Tuesday in a statement, compared with estimates of $1.84 per share.As its main search business matures, Google is betting on growth from its cloud division, which supplies computing power, software and services to other companies. Google is drawing more cloud customers using its AI expertise to gain ground on larger rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft, making inroads by signing on fast-growing AI startups — some of which were founded by former Googlers — as clients…Sales in the cloud division jumped to $11.4 billion, a 35% rise from the year-ago period and better than analysts had projected. Google is third in the market, but there is room for it to grow alongside Amazon and Microsoft, Ido Caspi, a research analyst at Global X ETFs, wrote in an email. “Increasing enterprise AI workloads will continue to bolster cloud revenues,” Caspi said.Google Cloud Platform was absolutely the standout of these earnings; here is the division’s revenue growth ever since it became a separately reported segment:Remember, though, that not all growth is created equal; I notedin Januarythat the up-tick in growth then was due to a price increase for Google Workspace. That is why this comment from new CFO Anat Ashkenazi’s prepared remarkson the earnings callwas so important:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 35% to $11.4 billion in the third quarter, reflecting accelerated growth in GCP across AI infrastructure, generative AI solutions and core GCP products. Once again, GCP grew at a rate that was higher than cloud overall. We also saw strong Google Workspace growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat.Notice that Workspace price increases are still a driver of this growth, but that is now outpaced by GCP growth, some amount of which is obviously AI. CEO Sundar Pichai said in his prepared remarks:Next, Google Cloud. I’m very pleased with our growth. This business has real momentum and the overall opportunity is increasing as customers embrace GenAI. We generated Q3 revenues of $11.4 billion, up 35% over last year with operating margins of 17%. Our technology leadership and AI portfolio are helping us attract new customers, win larger deals and drive 30% deeper product adoption with existing customers.The “deeper product adoption with existing customers” is where I suspect most of the AI growth is found; the big question in terms of the long-term sustainability of this growth is how many new customers actually come to Google to take advantage of their integrated infrastructure. Regardless, the other big payoff of increased revenue is better margins:That is a very nice uptick in profit, and exactly what you would expect from a big revenue jump for a business predicated on fixed costs. That noted, we’re still very much in the middle of the AI build-out, so those costs are going to be going up as that capital expenditure is depreciated. All that, though, is in the future: for now this is an extremely encouraging result.Google’s advertising business, meanwhile, was just ok:Both Search and YouTube were coming off of a tough year-over-year comp, which is to say these are still very healthy businesses, they just weren’t the driver of this big beat.YouTube FinancialsWhat was notable was this tidbit about YouTube from Pichai:Moving now to YouTube. For the first time ever, YouTube’s combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters has surpassed $50 billion. Together, YouTube TV, NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube Music Premium are driving subscription growth for the platform. And we are leaning into the living room experience with multi-view and a new option for creators to organize content into episodes and seasons, similar to traditional TV. At Made on YouTube, we announced that Google DeepMind’s most capable model for video generation VO is coming to YouTube Shorts to help creators later this year.A pedantic note to start: I continue to believe that Google’s YouTube reporting is in violation of SEC standards, which mandate that companies disclose profitability for major divisions that report to the CEO. I explainedin this 2020 Updatewhen Google first reported anything YouTube related:These new disclosures shouldn’t have been a surprise to Stratechery readers; after Sundar Pichai became the CEO of all of Alphabet, I noted inThe Daily Updatethat the company would likely be required to disclose YouTube financials (the reason they claimed they didn’t have to previously is because Larry Page, then Alphabet’s CEO, didn’t see YouTube’s financials). Granted, I thought the SEC would have to make Google do it and that it would take a while, but it was inevitable; Google decided to act first.The reason, by the way, why I am pretty sure that Google made this move on their own is that this is the least possible amount of disclosure possible. We got YouTube’s top-line revenue number, and that’s it. No word on cost-of-revenue (a particularly interesting number in the case of YouTube given its surely massive bandwidth costs), how much it pays out to creators, how much it spends on content moderation, basically nothing that allows outsiders to understand the business other than that top line item. I strongly suspect that Google is trying to foreclose the SEC revisiting the issue.I realize this may not be the response many of you expected, given my longstanding campaign for Google to release YouTube’s financials, but again, the top-line revenue number is not sufficient to run a business, which is the exact sort of information a public company should disclose. The SEC specifically asked Google inits last correspondence on the matterabout profitability and expense information:We note in your response to prior comment 6 in your letter dated August 25, 2017 that your CODM [Chief Operating Decision Maker] receives operating results for Google on a weekly and quarterly basis. We further note in your response to prior comment 2 in your letter dated October 16, 2017 that your CODM and Board of Directors receive disaggregated advertising revenue by platform and property including YouTube. Tell us whether Larry Page and/or the Board of Directors receive any form of profitability and/or expense information for any of the product lines within Google and specifically the YouTube business in these reports or any other reports. If so, describe the nature, type and frequency of that information.Page didn’t get that information, letting Google wriggle through a loophole, but Pichai does, and the SEC should make the company release it (for Google Cloud as well).Google does now release profitability information for Google Cloud — to the company’s benefit, per the charts above — but there is still nothing about YouTube’s costs. What is notable about Pichai’s disclosure is that the situation has actually been worse than I realized: Google is breaking out YouTube’sadvertisingrevenue, but not itssubscriptionrevenue. That, though, only makes my complaint even more correct: Google isn’t disclosing the full revenue or costs of a major division of the company that reports to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. That’s a violation of SEC reporting standards!That noted, now that we have that $50 billion number, it’s pretty interesting. First, YouTube ad revenue over the past 4 quarters was $34.9 billion; that means YouTube subscription revenue was $15.1 billion. Second, the last time Google disclosed total YouTube revenue was Q2 2023 when the service hit $40 billion total revenue; at that time ad revenue was $29.1 billion, and subscription revenue was $10.9 billion. That means that subscriptions are growing faster than ads; this chart is from MoffettNathanson:Just to put these numbers in context, Netflix revenue over the last 12 months is $37.6 billion. That means that not only does YouTube have 33% more revenue than Netflix, but it has nearly half as muchsubscriptionrevenue as well.What this reinforces is a subtle detail I put in my Smiling Curve illustrations; here are the two I posted inyesterday’s Article about Meta:In both cases I was careful to ascribe more value to the at-scale network on the right. Yes, there is a lot of value in the highly differentiated left-hand side of the curve; at the same time, producing that differentiation entails meaningful costs, even as that differentiation, along with the business model to support them, limits the addressable market. The right side, meanwhile, is fully customized to every individual and operates at scale, thanks to the fact these massive platforms — like YouTube — get their content for free; that same scale and personalization, meanwhile, means they are well-suited to advertising, which makes them accessible to everyone. So it is with YouTube relative to Netflix.AI OptimismMore generally, you’ll note that a lot of the optimism I have for Meta applies to Google as well. For example, the company continues to iterate on generative ads. Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said in his prepared remarks:As I’ve said before, we believe AI will revolutionize every part of the marketing value chain. Let’s start with creative. Advertisers now use our Gemini-powered tools to build and test a larger variety of relevant creatives at scale. Audi used our AI tools to generate multiple video image and text assets in different links and orientations out of existing long-form videos. It then fed the newly generated creatives into demand gen to drive reach, traffic and booking to their driving experience. The campaign increased website visits by 80% and increased clicks by 2.7 times, delivering a lift in their sales. Last week, we updated image generation at Google Ads with our most advanced text-to-image model, Imagine 3, which we tuned using ads performance data from multiple industries to help customers produce high-quality imagery for their campaigns. Advertisers can now create even higher-performing assets for PMax, Demand Gen app and Display campaigns.PMax, or Performance Max, is Google’s black box; Schindler said:And on the PMax side, look, we continue to see success with PMax. And we see those success stories really from large advertisers, from agencies, from SMBs across marketing objectives, across different verticals. It’s very cost effective, and it really finds customers wherever they are across all the different Google channels. And with the introduction of Gemini, we added a lot of new features to PMax. For example, to deliver more powerful performance, help advertisers scale, build high-quality creative assets and so on.The ability to find customers across Google’s channels will probably be key in terms of monetizing AI Overviews and the like, and Google is the only entity that can rival Meta in terms of making that black box not just work, but work better than anything else.AI, meanwhile, will increase advertising opportunities; management spent a lot of time talking about Google Lens, for example:As you heard from Sundar, every month, Lens is used for almost 20 billion visual searches with 1 in 4 of these searches having commercial intent. In early October, we announced product search on Google Lens. And in testing this feature, we found that shoppers are more likely to engage with content in this new format. We’re also seeing that people are turning to Lens more often to run complex multimodal queries, voicing a question or inputting text in addition to a visual. Given these new user behaviors, earlier this month, we announced the rollout of shopping ads above and alongside relevant Lens visual search results to help better connect consumers and businesses.This is purely additive, and is enabled by AI. It’s also available on smartphones now (and oh yeah, did I mention that Google, unlike Meta, controls a smartphone platform?). AI, meanwhile, can also help increase signal on YouTube. I thought this bit from Schindler was interesting:We’re also using AI to greatly improve recommendations on YouTube. Driven by Gemini, our large language models have a deeper understanding of video content and viewers’ preferences. As a result, they can recommend more relevant, fresher and personalized content to the viewer.The next step, obviously, is to use that signal for targeting, and, similar to what I posited for Meta, eventually make content itself into ads.In short, even if investors are worried about AI’s impact on search, there are huge swathes of Google’s business that have a lot of AI-derived upside; more importantly, the company is starting to move more quickly, which increases the chances that they simply figure out AI search monetization themselves. Sure, there might be a margin hit, but the company has a lot of places to make that revenue up, and this quarter suggests they are doing better at that than many realized.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedGoogle’s Search for the Sweet SpotDateThursday, October 5, 2017Gemini 1.5 and Google’s NatureDateWednesday, April 10, 2024Meta and Reasonable DoubtDateMonday, April 29, 2024←Meta’s AI AbundanceAn Interview with Synopsys CEO Sassine Ghazi About Designing Chips→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,This week’sMonday Mailbag episode of Sharp Techdiscussed AI and enterprise software, AI podcasts, and a discussion about where we get information.On to the Update:Google EarningsFromBloomberg:Google parent Alphabet Inc. showed on Tuesday that an expensive foray into artificial intelligence is starting to pay off, delivering better-than-expected traction for its cloud computing business and driving more usage for its flagship search engine. Reporting healthy gains in both revenue and profit, Google did much to allay Wall Street concerns that the company has squandered an early lead in AI, and that its heavy investments to catch the likes of Microsoft Corp. and OpenAI might not yield dividends. Revenue, excluding partner payouts, increased to $74.6 billion, up about 16% from the year-ago quarter and surpassing the $72.9 billion analysts predicted on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was $2.12 per share, the company said Tuesday in a statement, compared with estimates of $1.84 per share.As its main search business matures, Google is betting on growth from its cloud division, which supplies computing power, software and services to other companies. Google is drawing more cloud customers using its AI expertise to gain ground on larger rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft, making inroads by signing on fast-growing AI startups — some of which were founded by former Googlers — as clients…Sales in the cloud division jumped to $11.4 billion, a 35% rise from the year-ago period and better than analysts had projected. Google is third in the market, but there is room for it to grow alongside Amazon and Microsoft, Ido Caspi, a research analyst at Global X ETFs, wrote in an email. “Increasing enterprise AI workloads will continue to bolster cloud revenues,” Caspi said.Google Cloud Platform was absolutely the standout of these earnings; here is the division’s revenue growth ever since it became a separately reported segment:Remember, though, that not all growth is created equal; I notedin Januarythat the up-tick in growth then was due to a price increase for Google Workspace. That is why this comment from new CFO Anat Ashkenazi’s prepared remarkson the earnings callwas so important:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 35% to $11.4 billion in the third quarter, reflecting accelerated growth in GCP across AI infrastructure, generative AI solutions and core GCP products. Once again, GCP grew at a rate that was higher than cloud overall. We also saw strong Google Workspace growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat.Notice that Workspace price increases are still a driver of this growth, but that is now outpaced by GCP growth, some amount of which is obviously AI. CEO Sundar Pichai said in his prepared remarks:Next, Google Cloud. I’m very pleased with our growth. This business has real momentum and the overall opportunity is increasing as customers embrace GenAI. We generated Q3 revenues of $11.4 billion, up 35% over last year with operating margins of 17%. Our technology leadership and AI portfolio are helping us attract new customers, win larger deals and drive 30% deeper product adoption with existing customers.The “deeper product adoption with existing customers” is where I suspect most of the AI growth is found; the big question in terms of the long-term sustainability of this growth is how many new customers actually come to Google to take advantage of their integrated infrastructure. Regardless, the other big payoff of increased revenue is better margins:That is a very nice uptick in profit, and exactly what you would expect from a big revenue jump for a business predicated on fixed costs. That noted, we’re still very much in the middle of the AI build-out, so those costs are going to be going up as that capital expenditure is depreciated. All that, though, is in the future: for now this is an extremely encouraging result.Google’s advertising business, meanwhile, was just ok:Both Search and YouTube were coming off of a tough year-over-year comp, which is to say these are still very healthy businesses, they just weren’t the driver of this big beat.YouTube FinancialsWhat was notable was this tidbit about YouTube from Pichai:Moving now to YouTube. For the first time ever, YouTube’s combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters has surpassed $50 billion. Together, YouTube TV, NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube Music Premium are driving subscription growth for the platform. And we are leaning into the living room experience with multi-view and a new option for creators to organize content into episodes and seasons, similar to traditional TV. At Made on YouTube, we announced that Google DeepMind’s most capable model for video generation VO is coming to YouTube Shorts to help creators later this year.A pedantic note to start: I continue to believe that Google’s YouTube reporting is in violation of SEC standards, which mandate that companies disclose profitability for major divisions that report to the CEO. I explainedin this 2020 Updatewhen Google first reported anything YouTube related:These new disclosures shouldn’t have been a surprise to Stratechery readers; after Sundar Pichai became the CEO of all of Alphabet, I noted inThe Daily Updatethat the company would likely be required to disclose YouTube financials (the reason they claimed they didn’t have to previously is because Larry Page, then Alphabet’s CEO, didn’t see YouTube’s financials). Granted, I thought the SEC would have to make Google do it and that it would take a while, but it was inevitable; Google decided to act first.The reason, by the way, why I am pretty sure that Google made this move on their own is that this is the least possible amount of disclosure possible. We got YouTube’s top-line revenue number, and that’s it. No word on cost-of-revenue (a particularly interesting number in the case of YouTube given its surely massive bandwidth costs), how much it pays out to creators, how much it spends on content moderation, basically nothing that allows outsiders to understand the business other than that top line item. I strongly suspect that Google is trying to foreclose the SEC revisiting the issue.I realize this may not be the response many of you expected, given my longstanding campaign for Google to release YouTube’s financials, but again, the top-line revenue number is not sufficient to run a business, which is the exact sort of information a public company should disclose. The SEC specifically asked Google inits last correspondence on the matterabout profitability and expense information:We note in your response to prior comment 6 in your letter dated August 25, 2017 that your CODM [Chief Operating Decision Maker] receives operating results for Google on a weekly and quarterly basis. We further note in your response to prior comment 2 in your letter dated October 16, 2017 that your CODM and Board of Directors receive disaggregated advertising revenue by platform and property including YouTube. Tell us whether Larry Page and/or the Board of Directors receive any form of profitability and/or expense information for any of the product lines within Google and specifically the YouTube business in these reports or any other reports. If so, describe the nature, type and frequency of that information.Page didn’t get that information, letting Google wriggle through a loophole, but Pichai does, and the SEC should make the company release it (for Google Cloud as well).Google does now release profitability information for Google Cloud — to the company’s benefit, per the charts above — but there is still nothing about YouTube’s costs. What is notable about Pichai’s disclosure is that the situation has actually been worse than I realized: Google is breaking out YouTube’sadvertisingrevenue, but not itssubscriptionrevenue. That, though, only makes my complaint even more correct: Google isn’t disclosing the full revenue or costs of a major division of the company that reports to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. That’s a violation of SEC reporting standards!That noted, now that we have that $50 billion number, it’s pretty interesting. First, YouTube ad revenue over the past 4 quarters was $34.9 billion; that means YouTube subscription revenue was $15.1 billion. Second, the last time Google disclosed total YouTube revenue was Q2 2023 when the service hit $40 billion total revenue; at that time ad revenue was $29.1 billion, and subscription revenue was $10.9 billion. That means that subscriptions are growing faster than ads; this chart is from MoffettNathanson:Just to put these numbers in context, Netflix revenue over the last 12 months is $37.6 billion. That means that not only does YouTube have 33% more revenue than Netflix, but it has nearly half as muchsubscriptionrevenue as well.What this reinforces is a subtle detail I put in my Smiling Curve illustrations; here are the two I posted inyesterday’s Article about Meta:In both cases I was careful to ascribe more value to the at-scale network on the right. Yes, there is a lot of value in the highly differentiated left-hand side of the curve; at the same time, producing that differentiation entails meaningful costs, even as that differentiation, along with the business model to support them, limits the addressable market. The right side, meanwhile, is fully customized to every individual and operates at scale, thanks to the fact these massive platforms — like YouTube — get their content for free; that same scale and personalization, meanwhile, means they are well-suited to advertising, which makes them accessible to everyone. So it is with YouTube relative to Netflix.AI OptimismMore generally, you’ll note that a lot of the optimism I have for Meta applies to Google as well. For example, the company continues to iterate on generative ads. Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said in his prepared remarks:As I’ve said before, we believe AI will revolutionize every part of the marketing value chain. Let’s start with creative. Advertisers now use our Gemini-powered tools to build and test a larger variety of relevant creatives at scale. Audi used our AI tools to generate multiple video image and text assets in different links and orientations out of existing long-form videos. It then fed the newly generated creatives into demand gen to drive reach, traffic and booking to their driving experience. The campaign increased website visits by 80% and increased clicks by 2.7 times, delivering a lift in their sales. Last week, we updated image generation at Google Ads with our most advanced text-to-image model, Imagine 3, which we tuned using ads performance data from multiple industries to help customers produce high-quality imagery for their campaigns. Advertisers can now create even higher-performing assets for PMax, Demand Gen app and Display campaigns.PMax, or Performance Max, is Google’s black box; Schindler said:And on the PMax side, look, we continue to see success with PMax. And we see those success stories really from large advertisers, from agencies, from SMBs across marketing objectives, across different verticals. It’s very cost effective, and it really finds customers wherever they are across all the different Google channels. And with the introduction of Gemini, we added a lot of new features to PMax. For example, to deliver more powerful performance, help advertisers scale, build high-quality creative assets and so on.The ability to find customers across Google’s channels will probably be key in terms of monetizing AI Overviews and the like, and Google is the only entity that can rival Meta in terms of making that black box not just work, but work better than anything else.AI, meanwhile, will increase advertising opportunities; management spent a lot of time talking about Google Lens, for example:As you heard from Sundar, every month, Lens is used for almost 20 billion visual searches with 1 in 4 of these searches having commercial intent. In early October, we announced product search on Google Lens. And in testing this feature, we found that shoppers are more likely to engage with content in this new format. We’re also seeing that people are turning to Lens more often to run complex multimodal queries, voicing a question or inputting text in addition to a visual. Given these new user behaviors, earlier this month, we announced the rollout of shopping ads above and alongside relevant Lens visual search results to help better connect consumers and businesses.This is purely additive, and is enabled by AI. It’s also available on smartphones now (and oh yeah, did I mention that Google, unlike Meta, controls a smartphone platform?). AI, meanwhile, can also help increase signal on YouTube. I thought this bit from Schindler was interesting:We’re also using AI to greatly improve recommendations on YouTube. Driven by Gemini, our large language models have a deeper understanding of video content and viewers’ preferences. As a result, they can recommend more relevant, fresher and personalized content to the viewer.The next step, obviously, is to use that signal for targeting, and, similar to what I posited for Meta, eventually make content itself into ads.In short, even if investors are worried about AI’s impact on search, there are huge swathes of Google’s business that have a lot of AI-derived upside; more importantly, the company is starting to move more quickly, which increases the chances that they simply figure out AI search monetization themselves. Sure, there might be a margin hit, but the company has a lot of places to make that revenue up, and this quarter suggests they are doing better at that than many realized.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Google parent Alphabet Inc. showed on Tuesday that an expensive foray into artificial intelligence is starting to pay off, delivering better-than-expected traction for its cloud computing business and driving more usage for its flagship search engine. Reporting healthy gains in both revenue and profit, Google did much to allay Wall Street concerns that the company has squandered an early lead in AI, and that its heavy investments to catch the likes of Microsoft Corp. and OpenAI might not yield dividends. Revenue, excluding partner payouts, increased to $74.6 billion, up about 16% from the year-ago quarter and surpassing the $72.9 billion analysts predicted on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was $2.12 per share, the company said Tuesday in a statement, compared with estimates of $1.84 per share. As its main search business matures, Google is betting on growth from its cloud division, which supplies computing power, software and services to other companies. Google is drawing more cloud customers using its AI expertise to gain ground on larger rivals Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft, making inroads by signing on fast-growing AI startups — some of which were founded by former Googlers — as clients…Sales in the cloud division jumped to $11.4 billion, a 35% rise from the year-ago period and better than analysts had projected. Google is third in the market, but there is room for it to grow alongside Amazon and Microsoft, Ido Caspi, a research analyst at Global X ETFs, wrote in an email. “Increasing enterprise AI workloads will continue to bolster cloud revenues,” Caspi said. Remember, though, that not all growth is created equal; I notedin Januarythat the up-tick in growth then was due to a price increase for Google Workspace. That is why this comment from new CFO Anat Ashkenazi’s prepared remarkson the earnings callwas so important: Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 35% to $11.4 billion in the third quarter, reflecting accelerated growth in GCP across AI infrastructure, generative AI solutions and core GCP products. Once again, GCP grew at a rate that was higher than cloud overall. We also saw strong Google Workspace growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat. Next, Google Cloud. I’m very pleased with our growth. This business has real momentum and the overall opportunity is increasing as customers embrace GenAI. We generated Q3 revenues of $11.4 billion, up 35% over last year with operating margins of 17%. Our technology leadership and AI portfolio are helping us attract new customers, win larger deals and drive 30% deeper product adoption with existing customers. The “deeper product adoption with existing customers” is where I suspect most of the AI growth is found; the big question in terms of the long-term sustainability of this growth is how many new customers actually come to Google to take advantage of their integrated infrastructure. Regardless, the other big payoff of increased revenue is better margins: That is a very nice uptick in profit, and exactly what you would expect from a big revenue jump for a business predicated on fixed costs. That noted, we’re still very much in the middle of the AI build-out, so those costs are going to be going up as that capital expenditure is depreciated. All that, though, is in the future: for now this is an extremely encouraging result. Moving now to YouTube. For the first time ever, YouTube’s combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters has surpassed $50 billion. Together, YouTube TV, NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube Music Premium are driving subscription growth for the platform. And we are leaning into the living room experience with multi-view and a new option for creators to organize content into episodes and seasons, similar to traditional TV. At Made on YouTube, we announced that Google DeepMind’s most capable model for video generation VO is coming to YouTube Shorts to help creators later this year. A pedantic note to start: I continue to believe that Google’s YouTube reporting is in violation of SEC standards, which mandate that companies disclose profitability for major divisions that report to the CEO. I explainedin this 2020 Updatewhen Google first reported anything YouTube related: These new disclosures shouldn’t have been a surprise to Stratechery readers; after Sundar Pichai became the CEO of all of Alphabet, I noted inThe Daily Updatethat the company would likely be required to disclose YouTube financials (the reason they claimed they didn’t have to previously is because Larry Page, then Alphabet’s CEO, didn’t see YouTube’s financials). Granted, I thought the SEC would have to make Google do it and that it would take a while, but it was inevitable; Google decided to act first. The reason, by the way, why I am pretty sure that Google made this move on their own is that this is the least possible amount of disclosure possible. We got YouTube’s top-line revenue number, and that’s it. No word on cost-of-revenue (a particularly interesting number in the case of YouTube given its surely massive bandwidth costs), how much it pays out to creators, how much it spends on content moderation, basically nothing that allows outsiders to understand the business other than that top line item. I strongly suspect that Google is trying to foreclose the SEC revisiting the issue. I realize this may not be the response many of you expected, given my longstanding campaign for Google to release YouTube’s financials, but again, the top-line revenue number is not sufficient to run a business, which is the exact sort of information a public company should disclose. The SEC specifically asked Google inits last correspondence on the matterabout profitability and expense information: We note in your response to prior comment 6 in your letter dated August 25, 2017 that your CODM [Chief Operating Decision Maker] receives operating results for Google on a weekly and quarterly basis. We further note in your response to prior comment 2 in your letter dated October 16, 2017 that your CODM and Board of Directors receive disaggregated advertising revenue by platform and property including YouTube. Tell us whether Larry Page and/or the Board of Directors receive any form of profitability and/or expense information for any of the product lines within Google and specifically the YouTube business in these reports or any other reports. If so, describe the nature, type and frequency of that information. Google does now release profitability information for Google Cloud — to the company’s benefit, per the charts above — but there is still nothing about YouTube’s costs. What is notable about Pichai’s disclosure is that the situation has actually been worse than I realized: Google is breaking out YouTube’sadvertisingrevenue, but not itssubscriptionrevenue. That, though, only makes my complaint even more correct: Google isn’t disclosing the full revenue or costs of a major division of the company that reports to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. That’s a violation of SEC reporting standards! That noted, now that we have that $50 billion number, it’s pretty interesting. First, YouTube ad revenue over the past 4 quarters was $34.9 billion; that means YouTube subscription revenue was $15.1 billion. Second, the last time Google disclosed total YouTube revenue was Q2 2023 when the service hit $40 billion total revenue; at that time ad revenue was $29.1 billion, and subscription revenue was $10.9 billion. That means that subscriptions are growing faster than ads; this chart is from MoffettNathanson: Just to put these numbers in context, Netflix revenue over the last 12 months is $37.6 billion. That means that not only does YouTube have 33% more revenue than Netflix, but it has nearly half as muchsubscriptionrevenue as well. In both cases I was careful to ascribe more value to the at-scale network on the right. Yes, there is a lot of value in the highly differentiated left-hand side of the curve; at the same time, producing that differentiation entails meaningful costs, even as that differentiation, along with the business model to support them, limits the addressable market. The right side, meanwhile, is fully customized to every individual and operates at scale, thanks to the fact these massive platforms — like YouTube — get their content for free; that same scale and personalization, meanwhile, means they are well-suited to advertising, which makes them accessible to everyone. So it is with YouTube relative to Netflix. More generally, you’ll note that a lot of the optimism I have for Meta applies to Google as well. For example, the company continues to iterate on generative ads. Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said in his prepared remarks: As I’ve said before, we believe AI will revolutionize every part of the marketing value chain. Let’s start with creative. Advertisers now use our Gemini-powered tools to build and test a larger variety of relevant creatives at scale. Audi used our AI tools to generate multiple video image and text assets in different links and orientations out of existing long-form videos. It then fed the newly generated creatives into demand gen to drive reach, traffic and booking to their driving experience. The campaign increased website visits by 80% and increased clicks by 2.7 times, delivering a lift in their sales. Last week, we updated image generation at Google Ads with our most advanced text-to-image model, Imagine 3, which we tuned using ads performance data from multiple industries to help customers produce high-quality imagery for their campaigns. Advertisers can now create even higher-performing assets for PMax, Demand Gen app and Display campaigns. And on the PMax side, look, we continue to see success with PMax. And we see those success stories really from large advertisers, from agencies, from SMBs across marketing objectives, across different verticals. It’s very cost effective, and it really finds customers wherever they are across all the different Google channels. And with the introduction of Gemini, we added a lot of new features to PMax. For example, to deliver more powerful performance, help advertisers scale, build high-quality creative assets and so on. The ability to find customers across Google’s channels will probably be key in terms of monetizing AI Overviews and the like, and Google is the only entity that can rival Meta in terms of making that black box not just work, but work better than anything else. As you heard from Sundar, every month, Lens is used for almost 20 billion visual searches with 1 in 4 of these searches having commercial intent. In early October, we announced product search on Google Lens. And in testing this feature, we found that shoppers are more likely to engage with content in this new format. We’re also seeing that people are turning to Lens more often to run complex multimodal queries, voicing a question or inputting text in addition to a visual. Given these new user behaviors, earlier this month, we announced the rollout of shopping ads above and alongside relevant Lens visual search results to help better connect consumers and businesses. This is purely additive, and is enabled by AI. It’s also available on smartphones now (and oh yeah, did I mention that Google, unlike Meta, controls a smartphone platform?). AI, meanwhile, can also help increase signal on YouTube. I thought this bit from Schindler was interesting: We’re also using AI to greatly improve recommendations on YouTube. Driven by Gemini, our large language models have a deeper understanding of video content and viewers’ preferences. As a result, they can recommend more relevant, fresher and personalized content to the viewer. In short, even if investors are worried about AI’s impact on search, there are huge swathes of Google’s business that have a lot of AI-derived upside; more importantly, the company is starting to move more quickly, which increases the chances that they simply figure out AI search monetization themselves. Sure, there might be a margin hit, but the company has a lot of places to make that revenue up, and this quarter suggests they are doing better at that than many realized. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025