# [PODCAST] The billion dollar war behind U.S. rum

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/03/15/1197958469/rum-wars-puerto-rico-virgin-islands-captain-morgan
**Atlas ID**: 229471
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.842639

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop The Rum Wars: a secret plan, a tax scheme, and Captain Morgan  : Planet MoneyWhen you buy a bottle of rum in the United States, by law nearly all the federal taxes on that rum must be sent to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It's an unusual system that Congress designed decades ago to help fund these two U.S. territories. In 2021 alone, these rum tax payments added up to more than $700 million.Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands split the money according to how much rum each territory produces. And the territories produce a lot of it — especially Puerto Rico, which single handedly supplies the majority of the rum that Americans drink.But in 2008, the U.S. Virgin Islands pulled off a coup. It convinced one of the largest rum brands in the world, Captain Morgan, to abandon Puerto Rico and to shift its operations to the tiny island of St. Croix.This was the beginning of the Rum Wars.On today's show, the story of how a scheme designed to help Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands turned them into bitter rivals. And how it ended up putting hundreds of millions of dollars a year — U.S. taxpayer dollars — into the pockets of big liquor companies instead.This episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Sarah Gonzalez. It was produced by James Sneed with help from Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. It was edited by Molly Messick, engineered by Cena Loffredo, and fact checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe billion dollar war behind U.S. rumMarch 15, 20247:14 PM ETByJeff Guo,Sarah Gonzalez,James Sneed,Molly MessickThe billion dollar war behind U.S. rumListen·23:2523:25TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958469/1238958472" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageCaptain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Sneed/NPRCaptain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRWhen you buy a bottle of rum in the United States, by law nearly all the federal taxes on that rum must be sent to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It's an unusual system that Congress designed decades ago to help fund these two U.S. territories. In 2021 alone, these rum tax payments added up to more than $700 million.Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands split the money according to how much rum each territory produces. And the territories produce a lot of it — especially Puerto Rico, which single handedly supplies the majority of the rum that Americans drink.Sponsor MessageBut in 2008, the U.S. Virgin Islands pulled off a coup. It convinced one of the largest rum brands in the world, Captain Morgan, to abandon Puerto Rico and to shift its operations to the tiny island of St. Croix.This was the beginning of the Rum Wars.Planet MoneyEpisode 826: The Vodka ProofOn today's show, the story of how a scheme designed to help Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands turned them into bitter rivals. And how it ended up putting hundreds of millions of dollars a year — U.S. taxpayer dollars — into the pockets of big liquor companies instead.This episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Sarah Gonzalez. It was produced by James Sneed with help from Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. It was edited by Molly Messick, engineered by Cena Loffredo, and fact checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Roberto's Song," "Future Afrobeat," "Walk That Talk," and "Call Me Yours."CorrectionMarch 18, 2024A previous version of this story incorrectly said that Diageo owned Jose Cuervo and Dom Pérignon. In fact, Diageo had distribution rights to Jose Cuervo and has partial ownership of Dom Pérignon.FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The billion dollar war behind U.S. rumListen·23:2523:25TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958469/1238958472" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The billion dollar war behind U.S. rumListen·23:2523:25TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958469/1238958472" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958469/1238958472" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageCaptain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Sneed/NPRCaptain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRWhen you buy a bottle of rum in the United States, by law nearly all the federal taxes on that rum must be sent to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It's an unusual system that Congress designed decades ago to help fund these two U.S. territories. In 2021 alone, these rum tax payments added up to more than $700 million.Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands split the money according to how much rum each territory produces. And the territories produce a lot of it — especially Puerto Rico, which single handedly supplies the majority of the rum that Americans drink.Sponsor MessageBut in 2008, the U.S. Virgin Islands pulled off a coup. It convinced one of the largest rum brands in the world, Captain Morgan, to abandon Puerto Rico and to shift its operations to the tiny island of St. Croix.This was the beginning of the Rum Wars.Planet MoneyEpisode 826: The Vodka ProofOn today's show, the story of how a scheme designed to help Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands turned them into bitter rivals. And how it ended up putting hundreds of millions of dollars a year — U.S. taxpayer dollars — into the pockets of big liquor companies instead.This episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Sarah Gonzalez. It was produced by James Sneed with help from Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. It was edited by Molly Messick, engineered by Cena Loffredo, and fact checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Roberto's Song," "Future Afrobeat," "Walk That Talk," and "Call Me Yours." Enlarge this imageCaptain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Sneed/NPRCaptain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPR Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Sneed/NPR Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide caption Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPRhide caption Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPR Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars.James Sneed/NPR Captain Morgan, one of the largest rum brands in the world, operates a mega-distillery in St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands. And this distillery is at the heart of a years-long billion-dollar conflict known as The Rum Wars. When you buy a bottle of rum in the United States, by law nearly all the federal taxes on that rum must be sent to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. It's an unusual system that Congress designed decades ago to help fund these two U.S. territories. In 2021 alone, these rum tax payments added up to more than $700 million. Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands split the money according to how much rum each territory produces. And the territories produce a lot of it — especially Puerto Rico, which single handedly supplies the majority of the rum that Americans drink. But in 2008, the U.S. Virgin Islands pulled off a coup. It convinced one of the largest rum brands in the world, Captain Morgan, to abandon Puerto Rico and to shift its operations to the tiny island of St. Croix. On today's show, the story of how a scheme designed to help Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands turned them into bitter rivals. And how it ended up putting hundreds of millions of dollars a year — U.S. taxpayer dollars — into the pockets of big liquor companies instead. This episode was hosted by Jeff Guo and Sarah Gonzalez. It was produced by James Sneed with help from Sam Yellowhorse Kesler. It was edited by Molly Messick, engineered by Cena Loffredo, and fact checked by Sierra Juarez. Alex Goldmark is Planet Money's executive producer. CorrectionMarch 18, 2024A previous version of this story incorrectly said that Diageo owned Jose Cuervo and Dom Pérignon. In fact, Diageo had distribution rights to Jose Cuervo and has partial ownership of Dom Pérignon. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra