# [PODCAST] How much of your tax dollars are going to Israel and Ukraine

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2024/03/29/1197958571/us-military-aid-tax-ukraine-israel-gaza-russia
**Atlas ID**: 229470
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.842442

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop How much of my taxpayer dollars go to Israel and Ukraine? : Planet MoneyThere's been a lot of disagreement in Congress and in the country about whether the U.S. should continue to financially support the wars in Ukraine and Gaza.Some taxpayers don't think the U.S. should give Ukraine any money to fight off Russia's invasion. And some taxpayers have concerns about how they might be funding weapons that have been used to kill civilians in Gaza. And there are questions about how much individual taxpayers contribute to war efforts, generally.So in this episode, we attempt to do the math: The average taxpayers' contribution to Israel and Ukraine. It's not so simple. But in attempting to do this math, we get this window into the role of our tax dollars on foreign assistance, and how the U.S. sells weapons to other countries.For links to some of the reports we looked at to report this episode, check out theepisode pageon NPR.org.This episode was hosted by Sarah Gonzalez and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkHow much of your tax dollars are going to Israel and UkraineMarch 29, 20241:13 PM ETBySarah Gonzalez,Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi,Jess Jiang,Sam Yellowhorse KeslerHow much of your tax dollars are going to Israel and UkraineListen·23:3123:31TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958571/1241644605" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageIsraeli soldiers are seen near the Gaza Strip border in southern Israel, Monday, March 4, 2024.Ohad Zwigenberg/APhide captiontoggle captionOhad Zwigenberg/APIsraeli soldiers are seen near the Gaza Strip border in southern Israel, Monday, March 4, 2024.Ohad Zwigenberg/APThere's been a lot of disagreement in Congress and in the country about whether the U.S. should continue to financially support the wars in Ukraine and Gaza.Some taxpayers don't think the U.S. should give Ukraine any money to fight off Russia's invasion. And some taxpayers have concerns about how they might be funding weapons that have been used to kill civilians in Gaza. And there are questions about how much individual taxpayers contribute to war efforts, generally.So in this episode, we attempt to do the math: The average taxpayers' contribution to Israel and Ukraine. It's not so simple. But in attempting to do this math, we get this window into the role of our tax dollars on foreign assistance, and how the U.S. sells weapons to other countries.Sponsor MessageFurther Reading:Congressional Research Service Reports:Ending Cash Flow Financing to Egypt: Issues for CongressEgypt: Background and U.S. RelationsU.S. Foreign Aid to IsraelState Department Fact Sheets:U.S. Arms Sales and Defense TradeU.S. Security Cooperation with IsraelData:Defense Security Cooperation Agency: Major Arms SalesForeignAssistance.govU.S. Aid to Israel in Four ChartsAppropriations/Supplemental Aid:National Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022Continuing Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023House Appropriations BillPlanet MoneyTwo Indicators: Economics of the defense industryThis episode was hosted by Sarah Gonzalez and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Advancing Knowledge," "Let's Do," and "Nebula Noir"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor How much of your tax dollars are going to Israel and UkraineListen·23:3123:31TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958571/1241644605" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript How much of your tax dollars are going to Israel and UkraineListen·23:3123:31TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958571/1241644605" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197958571/1241644605" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageIsraeli soldiers are seen near the Gaza Strip border in southern Israel, Monday, March 4, 2024.Ohad Zwigenberg/APhide captiontoggle captionOhad Zwigenberg/APIsraeli soldiers are seen near the Gaza Strip border in southern Israel, Monday, March 4, 2024.Ohad Zwigenberg/APThere's been a lot of disagreement in Congress and in the country about whether the U.S. should continue to financially support the wars in Ukraine and Gaza.Some taxpayers don't think the U.S. should give Ukraine any money to fight off Russia's invasion. And some taxpayers have concerns about how they might be funding weapons that have been used to kill civilians in Gaza. And there are questions about how much individual taxpayers contribute to war efforts, generally.So in this episode, we attempt to do the math: The average taxpayers' contribution to Israel and Ukraine. It's not so simple. But in attempting to do this math, we get this window into the role of our tax dollars on foreign assistance, and how the U.S. sells weapons to other countries.Sponsor MessageFurther Reading:Congressional Research Service Reports:Ending Cash Flow Financing to Egypt: Issues for CongressEgypt: Background and U.S. RelationsU.S. Foreign Aid to IsraelState Department Fact Sheets:U.S. Arms Sales and Defense TradeU.S. Security Cooperation with IsraelData:Defense Security Cooperation Agency: Major Arms SalesForeignAssistance.govU.S. Aid to Israel in Four ChartsAppropriations/Supplemental Aid:National Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022Continuing Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023House Appropriations BillPlanet MoneyTwo Indicators: Economics of the defense industryThis episode was hosted by Sarah Gonzalez and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Advancing Knowledge," "Let's Do," and "Nebula Noir" Enlarge this imageIsraeli soldiers are seen near the Gaza Strip border in southern Israel, Monday, March 4, 2024.Ohad Zwigenberg/APhide captiontoggle captionOhad Zwigenberg/APIsraeli soldiers are seen near the Gaza Strip border in southern Israel, Monday, March 4, 2024.Ohad Zwigenberg/AP Some taxpayers don't think the U.S. should give Ukraine any money to fight off Russia's invasion. And some taxpayers have concerns about how they might be funding weapons that have been used to kill civilians in Gaza. And there are questions about how much individual taxpayers contribute to war efforts, generally. So in this episode, we attempt to do the math: The average taxpayers' contribution to Israel and Ukraine. It's not so simple. But in attempting to do this math, we get this window into the role of our tax dollars on foreign assistance, and how the U.S. sells weapons to other countries. This episode was hosted by Sarah Gonzalez and Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and edited by Jess Jiang. It was fact-checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Robert Rodriguez. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra