# [PODCAST] AWS re:Invent, Nova and Model Choice, AI as Commodity

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/aws-reinvent-nova-and-model-choice-ai-as-commodity/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.gUOSq5epFDhU1CTGlgXpEnHwmbPCDAMrOXrarzfBtUauYWEB3sep-Hh3tyQs0x_9c1zbXDVrLTDaGDddsq13BNnTK-NBrexsrZqtfCkbld4kZ2EwG_9k8zq0lLrpualwwc6cMp213Z5dh_6Fx18HcGGfOx2RIbUczRrovH9uw0vl-0NxmlzUOexnc6c2xx_3UEv3rXxk1gbyIVQhxOxnXjrMGFsf40z9ENSvKnoTW9fiLvuQhmh2e4A4QNNxQP0QoRIHxvWmWbDLICks2vmtnDeU7s6nqqMcTSTganpjrUBnNWyLP8atF0YaJ6U2AXMX99l-zu3i-mxRiltYFNMa7w
**Atlas ID**: 229655
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.925655

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirAWS re:Invent, Nova and Model Choice, AI as CommodityWednesday, December 4, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On yesterday’s episode ofDithering, John and I discussed former Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger’s resignation/firing.On to the Update:AWS re:InventFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. is ramping up its artificial intelligence offerings, rolling out powerful new chip arrays and a large language model it says can compete with leading rivals. The Seattle-based company is stringing together hundreds of thousands of its Trainium2 semiconductors into clusters that will make it easier for partner Anthropic to train the large language models required for generative AI and other machine learning tasks. The new arrays will quintuple the startup’s current processing power, Amazon said. Amazon Web Services, the cloud services division, began offering its latest chips to customers on Tuesday, the company said at its annual re:Invent conference.Andy Jassy, marking his first appearance at the trade show since becoming Amazon’s chief executive officer in 2021, introduced the new models — called Nova. Capable of generating text, images and video, they represent Amazon’s latest effort to compete with OpenAI and other builders of the large language models that power chatbots and other generative AI tools. AWS, the largest seller of rented computing power, runs many of the servers that other companies rent to train artificial intelligence applications. AWS also makes models built by other companies, including Anthropic’s Claude and Meta Platforms Inc.’s Llama, available to AWS customers. But the company has yet to produce a large language model widely seen as competitive with OpenAI’s most advanced GPT models.I’ll get to the Jassy segment of thekeynotein a moment; in that I am following the lead of AWS CEO Matt Garman, who conducted most of the keynote and, while talking about traditional AWS topics like processors and databases, laid the groundwork for Jassy. For example, Garman started out by talking about all of the compute options AWS offered:The good news is lots of customers love EC2 too. Why? Because EC2 has more options, more instances, and more capabilities, and it helps you find the exact right performance for the workload that you need. In fact, at this point, we’ve grown to where EC2 has 850 different instance types across 126 different families. What that means is you can always find the exact right instance type for the workload that you need.Garman then spent some time explaining how this instance variety was possible due to Nitro, the custom networking and hypervisor management chip that sits alongside every AWS server:So one question I get from a lot of customers is, “How do you possibly sustain that level of innovation? What allows you to deliver so much?” One of the answers to that is Nitro. Nitro is our AWS virtualization system. Effectively, what we did is we designed a custom chip that offloads all of the virtualization for networking, for storage, and for compute, off into this separate Nitro card system. What that allows us to do is it allows us to deliver bare metal performance, it allows us to deliver unparalleled security and isolation for customers that unmatched anywhere in the cloud, but an interesting other benefit of Nitro is that it gives us a ton of flexibility. When we move all of the virtualization off into this Nitro system separately, it allows us to innovate independently, so we don’t have to redo the virtualization stack every time we have a new instance type. We can simply develop a great new server and then develop the virtualization stack independently and put them together. That allows us to move much faster, and it’s interesting: Nitro has been one of the keys that has really unlocked the speed of innovation in compute at AWS.Garman then explained how Nitro started Amazon down the path to building its own silicon, including Graviton, its ARM-based alternative to Intel and AMD, which Garman said offers 40% better price performance and 60% better energy utilization than x86. Garman also said that the amount of Graviton compute on AWS today exceeds the total amount of compute on the service in 2019 when Graviton launched.This, then, led to the discussion of Trainium2, Amazon’s own AI chip, which is now generally available, along with the announcement that Trainium3 is coming next year. The promise sounded familiar: 30-40% better price performance than current generation GPU-based instances (i.e. Nvidia Hopper). Of course AWS will be offering Nvidia’s new Blackwell GPUs as well.Nova and Model ChoiceJump forward to Jassy’s appearance, which was framed as a discussion of how Amazon is using generative AI internally. After running through a number of examples of Amazon services, Jassy had this to say:These are, by the way, just a few of the almost 1,000 generative AI applications that we are either building or have built inside of Amazon, and we have obviously learned a lot of lessons along the way, and I’d share a few of those with you — just three right now.First, is that as you get to scale in generative AI applications, the cost of compute really matters. All of our generative applications around the world, all of us, it’s primarily been built with one chip in that compute, and people are very hungry for better price performance, and that’s why people are so excited about Trainium2 as Matt was talking about earlier.Number two, it’s actually quite difficult to build a really big generative AI application. You need a good model, but it’s not just the model. In addition to the model, you have to have the right guardrails, you have to have the right fluency of the messaging, and you have to have the right UI, and you have to have the right latency, or it’s a really slow, laggy experience, and you have to have the right cost structure. I think a lot of times what happens is you build these apps, you use a great model, you do a little bit of work, and you think I have a great generative AI app, and it turns out that you are really only about 70% of the way there, and the reality is customers don’t take kindly to apps that have 30% wonkiness.And then, the third thing I would say, I have been surprised with all the internal building inside of Amazon, with the diversity of models being used. We gave our builders freedom to pick what they want to do, and I figured that almost everybody would end up using Anthropic’s Claude models because they’re the very best performing models in the world, and have been for the last year or so. And by the way, we have a lot of our internal builders using Claude. But, they’re also using Llama models. They’re also using Mistral models, and they’re also using some of our own models, and they’re also using home-grown models themselves.So this kind of surprised us, but in some ways, as I think about it, it doesn’t surprise us, because we keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again, which is that there is never going to be one tool to rule the world. It’s not the case in databases — we’ve been talking about this for ten years, people use lots of different relational databases or non-relational databases – it’s not the case in analytics. I remember six, seven years ago being on stage, and we were talking about how everybody thought that Tensorflow was going to be the one AI framework. We kept saying there are going to be a lot of them, and there were, and it turns out that PyTorch ended up being the most popular one. And the same is going to be true for models. We see this internally.What we’ve noticed is as we’ve been building all these applications is that our internal builders have been asking for all sorts of things from our teams that are building models. They want better latency, they want lower costs, they want the ability to do fine-tuning. They want the ability to better orchestrate across their different knowledge bases to be able to ground their data. They want to take lots of automated orchestrated actions, or what people call agentic behavior. They want better image and video. They want a whole bunch of things. We share that feedback with our model provider partners, and they’re accepted, but they’re busy. You guys want a lot! There’s a lot to do.And so it’s one of the reasons why we have continued to work on our own frontier models, and those frontier models have made a tremendous amount of progress over the last four to five months, and we figured if we were finding value out of them, you would probably find value out of them, so I’m excited to share and announce the launch of Amazon Nova, which are our new state-of-the-art foundation models that deliver frontier intelligence at industry-leading price performance.Forgive the long excerpt, but this is maybe the best articulation yet of AWS’s AI strategy, which, unsurprisingly, looks a lot like the AWS strategy generally.First is that bit about choice. Just as AWS offers a huge amount of choice in processing or databases, AWS will offer choice in models. Second, while I skipped over the Bedrock portion of Garman’s presentation, that is the Nitro in this analogy. Bedrock is AWS’s managed service for models, and it has features that Jassy listed: fine-tuning, integration across knowlege bases, agent orchestration, etc. Third, while Bedrock will offer access to 3rd-party models, just as AWS offers access to third-party chips, the biggest benefit to Amazon itself, and over-time the likely cheapest option for 3rd-party developers, will be Amazon’s own offering.Nova itself seems fine; onLiveBenchNova Pro ranks just behind Gemini 1.5 Flash, Llama 3.1 70b, and just ahead of Claude 3.5 Haiku and GPT 4o Mini; that’s a fair bit off the pace from Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT 4o, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Meta Llama 3.1 405b. It’s also much cheaper than Claude’s high-end model (although more expensive that Llama 3.2 90b). The big focus seems to be latency: Jassy emphasized its speed, and you’ll note how he called out latency as the first request from his internal teams.AI as CommodityIn March 2023, Dylan Patel at SemiAnalysis wrote an article entitled,Amazon’s Cloud Crisis: How AWS Will Lose the Future of Computing, where he highlighted Nitro as a brilliant innovation that helped AWS dominate commodity compute, but a significant limiter on the company’s AI capabilities:Amazon is installing their 5th generation Nitro which was designed in-house. The advantages that Nitro brings from an infrastructure cost perspective cannot be understated. It enables much lower costs for Amazon, which can then be passed on to customers, or result in higher margins. With that said, Amazon’s Nitro also has some major drawbacks…Amazon is actively hampering its efforts in AI clusters. Compute is only part of the equation. Networking is the other side and arguably just as important. Rather than implement the best networking from Nvidia and/or Broadcom, Amazon is using its own Nitro and Elastic Fabric Adaptor (EFA) networking. This works well for many workloads, plus it delivers a cost, performance, and security advantage.There are business, cultural, and security reasons why Amazon will not implement other networking. The cultural one is important. Nitro and networking SoC’s generally have been Amazon’s biggest cost advantage for years. It’s ingrained into their DNA. Even EFA delivers on this too, but they don’t see how new workloads are evolving and that a new tier is needed due to the lack of foresight in their internal workload and infrastructure teams. Amazon is making a deliberate choice of not adopting that we believe will bite them in the future.Patel and company havea new article up this weekabout Trainium2 and how AWS is building out that big cluster for Anthropic, including a detailed explanation about the company’s new approaches to both scale-up networking (to increased the number of chips in a server) and scale-out networking (to increase cluster size). It will certainly be interesting to see how well that ends up working out for Anthropic and the models they will train on AWS’ infrastructure.At the same time, the Anthropic training cluster felt like the exception to AWS’ approach, not the rule: the emphasis on “choice” in the presentation, first in terms of regular AWS, and then later in terms of AI, is another way to say that the options are, in the end, mere commodities. Sure, the cutting edge for both inference and especially training will be Nvidia, and AWS will offer Nvidia instances (to the extent they fit in AWS’ network), but AWS’s bet is that a necessary component of generative AI being productized is that models fade in importance. Note this bit from Garman leading up to his Bedrock discussion:We talked about wanting this set of building blocks that builders could use to invent anything that they could imagine. We also talked about how many of the cases we walked through today, that we’ve redefined how people thought about these as applications change. Now people’s expectations are actually changing for applications again with generative AI, and increasingly my view is generative AI inference is going to be a core building block for every single application. In fact, I think generative AI actually has the potential to transform every single industry, every single company out there, every single workflow out there, every single user experience out there…This expansive view of generative AI’s importance — notice how Garman put it on the same level as the compute, storage, and database primitives — emphasizes the importance of it becoming a commodity, with commodity-like concerns about price, performance, and flexibility. In other words, exactly what AWS excels at. To put it another way, AWS’s bet is that AI will be important enough that it won’t, in the end, be special at all, which is very much Amazon’s sweet spot.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe AWS IPODateWednesday, May 6, 2015The 2015 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateMonday, December 28, 2015Paradigm Shifts and the Winner’s CurseDateWednesday, August 6, 2025←Gelsinger Out at Intel, What Happened, Ten Years Too LateAn Interview with Tae Kim about Jensen Huang and The Nvidia Way→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air AWS re:Invent, Nova and Model Choice, AI as CommodityWednesday, December 4, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On yesterday’s episode ofDithering, John and I discussed former Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger’s resignation/firing.On to the Update:AWS re:InventFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. is ramping up its artificial intelligence offerings, rolling out powerful new chip arrays and a large language model it says can compete with leading rivals. The Seattle-based company is stringing together hundreds of thousands of its Trainium2 semiconductors into clusters that will make it easier for partner Anthropic to train the large language models required for generative AI and other machine learning tasks. The new arrays will quintuple the startup’s current processing power, Amazon said. Amazon Web Services, the cloud services division, began offering its latest chips to customers on Tuesday, the company said at its annual re:Invent conference.Andy Jassy, marking his first appearance at the trade show since becoming Amazon’s chief executive officer in 2021, introduced the new models — called Nova. Capable of generating text, images and video, they represent Amazon’s latest effort to compete with OpenAI and other builders of the large language models that power chatbots and other generative AI tools. AWS, the largest seller of rented computing power, runs many of the servers that other companies rent to train artificial intelligence applications. AWS also makes models built by other companies, including Anthropic’s Claude and Meta Platforms Inc.’s Llama, available to AWS customers. But the company has yet to produce a large language model widely seen as competitive with OpenAI’s most advanced GPT models.I’ll get to the Jassy segment of thekeynotein a moment; in that I am following the lead of AWS CEO Matt Garman, who conducted most of the keynote and, while talking about traditional AWS topics like processors and databases, laid the groundwork for Jassy. For example, Garman started out by talking about all of the compute options AWS offered:The good news is lots of customers love EC2 too. Why? Because EC2 has more options, more instances, and more capabilities, and it helps you find the exact right performance for the workload that you need. In fact, at this point, we’ve grown to where EC2 has 850 different instance types across 126 different families. What that means is you can always find the exact right instance type for the workload that you need.Garman then spent some time explaining how this instance variety was possible due to Nitro, the custom networking and hypervisor management chip that sits alongside every AWS server:So one question I get from a lot of customers is, “How do you possibly sustain that level of innovation? What allows you to deliver so much?” One of the answers to that is Nitro. Nitro is our AWS virtualization system. Effectively, what we did is we designed a custom chip that offloads all of the virtualization for networking, for storage, and for compute, off into this separate Nitro card system. What that allows us to do is it allows us to deliver bare metal performance, it allows us to deliver unparalleled security and isolation for customers that unmatched anywhere in the cloud, but an interesting other benefit of Nitro is that it gives us a ton of flexibility. When we move all of the virtualization off into this Nitro system separately, it allows us to innovate independently, so we don’t have to redo the virtualization stack every time we have a new instance type. We can simply develop a great new server and then develop the virtualization stack independently and put them together. That allows us to move much faster, and it’s interesting: Nitro has been one of the keys that has really unlocked the speed of innovation in compute at AWS.Garman then explained how Nitro started Amazon down the path to building its own silicon, including Graviton, its ARM-based alternative to Intel and AMD, which Garman said offers 40% better price performance and 60% better energy utilization than x86. Garman also said that the amount of Graviton compute on AWS today exceeds the total amount of compute on the service in 2019 when Graviton launched.This, then, led to the discussion of Trainium2, Amazon’s own AI chip, which is now generally available, along with the announcement that Trainium3 is coming next year. The promise sounded familiar: 30-40% better price performance than current generation GPU-based instances (i.e. Nvidia Hopper). Of course AWS will be offering Nvidia’s new Blackwell GPUs as well.Nova and Model ChoiceJump forward to Jassy’s appearance, which was framed as a discussion of how Amazon is using generative AI internally. After running through a number of examples of Amazon services, Jassy had this to say:These are, by the way, just a few of the almost 1,000 generative AI applications that we are either building or have built inside of Amazon, and we have obviously learned a lot of lessons along the way, and I’d share a few of those with you — just three right now.First, is that as you get to scale in generative AI applications, the cost of compute really matters. All of our generative applications around the world, all of us, it’s primarily been built with one chip in that compute, and people are very hungry for better price performance, and that’s why people are so excited about Trainium2 as Matt was talking about earlier.Number two, it’s actually quite difficult to build a really big generative AI application. You need a good model, but it’s not just the model. In addition to the model, you have to have the right guardrails, you have to have the right fluency of the messaging, and you have to have the right UI, and you have to have the right latency, or it’s a really slow, laggy experience, and you have to have the right cost structure. I think a lot of times what happens is you build these apps, you use a great model, you do a little bit of work, and you think I have a great generative AI app, and it turns out that you are really only about 70% of the way there, and the reality is customers don’t take kindly to apps that have 30% wonkiness.And then, the third thing I would say, I have been surprised with all the internal building inside of Amazon, with the diversity of models being used. We gave our builders freedom to pick what they want to do, and I figured that almost everybody would end up using Anthropic’s Claude models because they’re the very best performing models in the world, and have been for the last year or so. And by the way, we have a lot of our internal builders using Claude. But, they’re also using Llama models. They’re also using Mistral models, and they’re also using some of our own models, and they’re also using home-grown models themselves.So this kind of surprised us, but in some ways, as I think about it, it doesn’t surprise us, because we keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again, which is that there is never going to be one tool to rule the world. It’s not the case in databases — we’ve been talking about this for ten years, people use lots of different relational databases or non-relational databases – it’s not the case in analytics. I remember six, seven years ago being on stage, and we were talking about how everybody thought that Tensorflow was going to be the one AI framework. We kept saying there are going to be a lot of them, and there were, and it turns out that PyTorch ended up being the most popular one. And the same is going to be true for models. We see this internally.What we’ve noticed is as we’ve been building all these applications is that our internal builders have been asking for all sorts of things from our teams that are building models. They want better latency, they want lower costs, they want the ability to do fine-tuning. They want the ability to better orchestrate across their different knowledge bases to be able to ground their data. They want to take lots of automated orchestrated actions, or what people call agentic behavior. They want better image and video. They want a whole bunch of things. We share that feedback with our model provider partners, and they’re accepted, but they’re busy. You guys want a lot! There’s a lot to do.And so it’s one of the reasons why we have continued to work on our own frontier models, and those frontier models have made a tremendous amount of progress over the last four to five months, and we figured if we were finding value out of them, you would probably find value out of them, so I’m excited to share and announce the launch of Amazon Nova, which are our new state-of-the-art foundation models that deliver frontier intelligence at industry-leading price performance.Forgive the long excerpt, but this is maybe the best articulation yet of AWS’s AI strategy, which, unsurprisingly, looks a lot like the AWS strategy generally.First is that bit about choice. Just as AWS offers a huge amount of choice in processing or databases, AWS will offer choice in models. Second, while I skipped over the Bedrock portion of Garman’s presentation, that is the Nitro in this analogy. Bedrock is AWS’s managed service for models, and it has features that Jassy listed: fine-tuning, integration across knowlege bases, agent orchestration, etc. Third, while Bedrock will offer access to 3rd-party models, just as AWS offers access to third-party chips, the biggest benefit to Amazon itself, and over-time the likely cheapest option for 3rd-party developers, will be Amazon’s own offering.Nova itself seems fine; onLiveBenchNova Pro ranks just behind Gemini 1.5 Flash, Llama 3.1 70b, and just ahead of Claude 3.5 Haiku and GPT 4o Mini; that’s a fair bit off the pace from Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT 4o, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Meta Llama 3.1 405b. It’s also much cheaper than Claude’s high-end model (although more expensive that Llama 3.2 90b). The big focus seems to be latency: Jassy emphasized its speed, and you’ll note how he called out latency as the first request from his internal teams.AI as CommodityIn March 2023, Dylan Patel at SemiAnalysis wrote an article entitled,Amazon’s Cloud Crisis: How AWS Will Lose the Future of Computing, where he highlighted Nitro as a brilliant innovation that helped AWS dominate commodity compute, but a significant limiter on the company’s AI capabilities:Amazon is installing their 5th generation Nitro which was designed in-house. The advantages that Nitro brings from an infrastructure cost perspective cannot be understated. It enables much lower costs for Amazon, which can then be passed on to customers, or result in higher margins. With that said, Amazon’s Nitro also has some major drawbacks…Amazon is actively hampering its efforts in AI clusters. Compute is only part of the equation. Networking is the other side and arguably just as important. Rather than implement the best networking from Nvidia and/or Broadcom, Amazon is using its own Nitro and Elastic Fabric Adaptor (EFA) networking. This works well for many workloads, plus it delivers a cost, performance, and security advantage.There are business, cultural, and security reasons why Amazon will not implement other networking. The cultural one is important. Nitro and networking SoC’s generally have been Amazon’s biggest cost advantage for years. It’s ingrained into their DNA. Even EFA delivers on this too, but they don’t see how new workloads are evolving and that a new tier is needed due to the lack of foresight in their internal workload and infrastructure teams. Amazon is making a deliberate choice of not adopting that we believe will bite them in the future.Patel and company havea new article up this weekabout Trainium2 and how AWS is building out that big cluster for Anthropic, including a detailed explanation about the company’s new approaches to both scale-up networking (to increased the number of chips in a server) and scale-out networking (to increase cluster size). It will certainly be interesting to see how well that ends up working out for Anthropic and the models they will train on AWS’ infrastructure.At the same time, the Anthropic training cluster felt like the exception to AWS’ approach, not the rule: the emphasis on “choice” in the presentation, first in terms of regular AWS, and then later in terms of AI, is another way to say that the options are, in the end, mere commodities. Sure, the cutting edge for both inference and especially training will be Nvidia, and AWS will offer Nvidia instances (to the extent they fit in AWS’ network), but AWS’s bet is that a necessary component of generative AI being productized is that models fade in importance. Note this bit from Garman leading up to his Bedrock discussion:We talked about wanting this set of building blocks that builders could use to invent anything that they could imagine. We also talked about how many of the cases we walked through today, that we’ve redefined how people thought about these as applications change. Now people’s expectations are actually changing for applications again with generative AI, and increasingly my view is generative AI inference is going to be a core building block for every single application. In fact, I think generative AI actually has the potential to transform every single industry, every single company out there, every single workflow out there, every single user experience out there…This expansive view of generative AI’s importance — notice how Garman put it on the same level as the compute, storage, and database primitives — emphasizes the importance of it becoming a commodity, with commodity-like concerns about price, performance, and flexibility. In other words, exactly what AWS excels at. To put it another way, AWS’s bet is that AI will be important enough that it won’t, in the end, be special at all, which is very much Amazon’s sweet spot.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe AWS IPODateWednesday, May 6, 2015The 2015 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateMonday, December 28, 2015Paradigm Shifts and the Winner’s CurseDateWednesday, August 6, 2025←Gelsinger Out at Intel, What Happened, Ten Years Too LateAn Interview with Tae Kim about Jensen Huang and The Nvidia Way→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All AWS re:Invent, Nova and Model Choice, AI as CommodityWednesday, December 4, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On yesterday’s episode ofDithering, John and I discussed former Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger’s resignation/firing.On to the Update:AWS re:InventFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. is ramping up its artificial intelligence offerings, rolling out powerful new chip arrays and a large language model it says can compete with leading rivals. The Seattle-based company is stringing together hundreds of thousands of its Trainium2 semiconductors into clusters that will make it easier for partner Anthropic to train the large language models required for generative AI and other machine learning tasks. The new arrays will quintuple the startup’s current processing power, Amazon said. Amazon Web Services, the cloud services division, began offering its latest chips to customers on Tuesday, the company said at its annual re:Invent conference.Andy Jassy, marking his first appearance at the trade show since becoming Amazon’s chief executive officer in 2021, introduced the new models — called Nova. Capable of generating text, images and video, they represent Amazon’s latest effort to compete with OpenAI and other builders of the large language models that power chatbots and other generative AI tools. AWS, the largest seller of rented computing power, runs many of the servers that other companies rent to train artificial intelligence applications. AWS also makes models built by other companies, including Anthropic’s Claude and Meta Platforms Inc.’s Llama, available to AWS customers. But the company has yet to produce a large language model widely seen as competitive with OpenAI’s most advanced GPT models.I’ll get to the Jassy segment of thekeynotein a moment; in that I am following the lead of AWS CEO Matt Garman, who conducted most of the keynote and, while talking about traditional AWS topics like processors and databases, laid the groundwork for Jassy. For example, Garman started out by talking about all of the compute options AWS offered:The good news is lots of customers love EC2 too. Why? Because EC2 has more options, more instances, and more capabilities, and it helps you find the exact right performance for the workload that you need. In fact, at this point, we’ve grown to where EC2 has 850 different instance types across 126 different families. What that means is you can always find the exact right instance type for the workload that you need.Garman then spent some time explaining how this instance variety was possible due to Nitro, the custom networking and hypervisor management chip that sits alongside every AWS server:So one question I get from a lot of customers is, “How do you possibly sustain that level of innovation? What allows you to deliver so much?” One of the answers to that is Nitro. Nitro is our AWS virtualization system. Effectively, what we did is we designed a custom chip that offloads all of the virtualization for networking, for storage, and for compute, off into this separate Nitro card system. What that allows us to do is it allows us to deliver bare metal performance, it allows us to deliver unparalleled security and isolation for customers that unmatched anywhere in the cloud, but an interesting other benefit of Nitro is that it gives us a ton of flexibility. When we move all of the virtualization off into this Nitro system separately, it allows us to innovate independently, so we don’t have to redo the virtualization stack every time we have a new instance type. We can simply develop a great new server and then develop the virtualization stack independently and put them together. That allows us to move much faster, and it’s interesting: Nitro has been one of the keys that has really unlocked the speed of innovation in compute at AWS.Garman then explained how Nitro started Amazon down the path to building its own silicon, including Graviton, its ARM-based alternative to Intel and AMD, which Garman said offers 40% better price performance and 60% better energy utilization than x86. Garman also said that the amount of Graviton compute on AWS today exceeds the total amount of compute on the service in 2019 when Graviton launched.This, then, led to the discussion of Trainium2, Amazon’s own AI chip, which is now generally available, along with the announcement that Trainium3 is coming next year. The promise sounded familiar: 30-40% better price performance than current generation GPU-based instances (i.e. Nvidia Hopper). Of course AWS will be offering Nvidia’s new Blackwell GPUs as well.Nova and Model ChoiceJump forward to Jassy’s appearance, which was framed as a discussion of how Amazon is using generative AI internally. After running through a number of examples of Amazon services, Jassy had this to say:These are, by the way, just a few of the almost 1,000 generative AI applications that we are either building or have built inside of Amazon, and we have obviously learned a lot of lessons along the way, and I’d share a few of those with you — just three right now.First, is that as you get to scale in generative AI applications, the cost of compute really matters. All of our generative applications around the world, all of us, it’s primarily been built with one chip in that compute, and people are very hungry for better price performance, and that’s why people are so excited about Trainium2 as Matt was talking about earlier.Number two, it’s actually quite difficult to build a really big generative AI application. You need a good model, but it’s not just the model. In addition to the model, you have to have the right guardrails, you have to have the right fluency of the messaging, and you have to have the right UI, and you have to have the right latency, or it’s a really slow, laggy experience, and you have to have the right cost structure. I think a lot of times what happens is you build these apps, you use a great model, you do a little bit of work, and you think I have a great generative AI app, and it turns out that you are really only about 70% of the way there, and the reality is customers don’t take kindly to apps that have 30% wonkiness.And then, the third thing I would say, I have been surprised with all the internal building inside of Amazon, with the diversity of models being used. We gave our builders freedom to pick what they want to do, and I figured that almost everybody would end up using Anthropic’s Claude models because they’re the very best performing models in the world, and have been for the last year or so. And by the way, we have a lot of our internal builders using Claude. But, they’re also using Llama models. They’re also using Mistral models, and they’re also using some of our own models, and they’re also using home-grown models themselves.So this kind of surprised us, but in some ways, as I think about it, it doesn’t surprise us, because we keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again, which is that there is never going to be one tool to rule the world. It’s not the case in databases — we’ve been talking about this for ten years, people use lots of different relational databases or non-relational databases – it’s not the case in analytics. I remember six, seven years ago being on stage, and we were talking about how everybody thought that Tensorflow was going to be the one AI framework. We kept saying there are going to be a lot of them, and there were, and it turns out that PyTorch ended up being the most popular one. And the same is going to be true for models. We see this internally.What we’ve noticed is as we’ve been building all these applications is that our internal builders have been asking for all sorts of things from our teams that are building models. They want better latency, they want lower costs, they want the ability to do fine-tuning. They want the ability to better orchestrate across their different knowledge bases to be able to ground their data. They want to take lots of automated orchestrated actions, or what people call agentic behavior. They want better image and video. They want a whole bunch of things. We share that feedback with our model provider partners, and they’re accepted, but they’re busy. You guys want a lot! There’s a lot to do.And so it’s one of the reasons why we have continued to work on our own frontier models, and those frontier models have made a tremendous amount of progress over the last four to five months, and we figured if we were finding value out of them, you would probably find value out of them, so I’m excited to share and announce the launch of Amazon Nova, which are our new state-of-the-art foundation models that deliver frontier intelligence at industry-leading price performance.Forgive the long excerpt, but this is maybe the best articulation yet of AWS’s AI strategy, which, unsurprisingly, looks a lot like the AWS strategy generally.First is that bit about choice. Just as AWS offers a huge amount of choice in processing or databases, AWS will offer choice in models. Second, while I skipped over the Bedrock portion of Garman’s presentation, that is the Nitro in this analogy. Bedrock is AWS’s managed service for models, and it has features that Jassy listed: fine-tuning, integration across knowlege bases, agent orchestration, etc. Third, while Bedrock will offer access to 3rd-party models, just as AWS offers access to third-party chips, the biggest benefit to Amazon itself, and over-time the likely cheapest option for 3rd-party developers, will be Amazon’s own offering.Nova itself seems fine; onLiveBenchNova Pro ranks just behind Gemini 1.5 Flash, Llama 3.1 70b, and just ahead of Claude 3.5 Haiku and GPT 4o Mini; that’s a fair bit off the pace from Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT 4o, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Meta Llama 3.1 405b. It’s also much cheaper than Claude’s high-end model (although more expensive that Llama 3.2 90b). The big focus seems to be latency: Jassy emphasized its speed, and you’ll note how he called out latency as the first request from his internal teams.AI as CommodityIn March 2023, Dylan Patel at SemiAnalysis wrote an article entitled,Amazon’s Cloud Crisis: How AWS Will Lose the Future of Computing, where he highlighted Nitro as a brilliant innovation that helped AWS dominate commodity compute, but a significant limiter on the company’s AI capabilities:Amazon is installing their 5th generation Nitro which was designed in-house. The advantages that Nitro brings from an infrastructure cost perspective cannot be understated. It enables much lower costs for Amazon, which can then be passed on to customers, or result in higher margins. With that said, Amazon’s Nitro also has some major drawbacks…Amazon is actively hampering its efforts in AI clusters. Compute is only part of the equation. Networking is the other side and arguably just as important. Rather than implement the best networking from Nvidia and/or Broadcom, Amazon is using its own Nitro and Elastic Fabric Adaptor (EFA) networking. This works well for many workloads, plus it delivers a cost, performance, and security advantage.There are business, cultural, and security reasons why Amazon will not implement other networking. The cultural one is important. Nitro and networking SoC’s generally have been Amazon’s biggest cost advantage for years. It’s ingrained into their DNA. Even EFA delivers on this too, but they don’t see how new workloads are evolving and that a new tier is needed due to the lack of foresight in their internal workload and infrastructure teams. Amazon is making a deliberate choice of not adopting that we believe will bite them in the future.Patel and company havea new article up this weekabout Trainium2 and how AWS is building out that big cluster for Anthropic, including a detailed explanation about the company’s new approaches to both scale-up networking (to increased the number of chips in a server) and scale-out networking (to increase cluster size). It will certainly be interesting to see how well that ends up working out for Anthropic and the models they will train on AWS’ infrastructure.At the same time, the Anthropic training cluster felt like the exception to AWS’ approach, not the rule: the emphasis on “choice” in the presentation, first in terms of regular AWS, and then later in terms of AI, is another way to say that the options are, in the end, mere commodities. Sure, the cutting edge for both inference and especially training will be Nvidia, and AWS will offer Nvidia instances (to the extent they fit in AWS’ network), but AWS’s bet is that a necessary component of generative AI being productized is that models fade in importance. Note this bit from Garman leading up to his Bedrock discussion:We talked about wanting this set of building blocks that builders could use to invent anything that they could imagine. We also talked about how many of the cases we walked through today, that we’ve redefined how people thought about these as applications change. Now people’s expectations are actually changing for applications again with generative AI, and increasingly my view is generative AI inference is going to be a core building block for every single application. In fact, I think generative AI actually has the potential to transform every single industry, every single company out there, every single workflow out there, every single user experience out there…This expansive view of generative AI’s importance — notice how Garman put it on the same level as the compute, storage, and database primitives — emphasizes the importance of it becoming a commodity, with commodity-like concerns about price, performance, and flexibility. In other words, exactly what AWS excels at. To put it another way, AWS’s bet is that AI will be important enough that it won’t, in the end, be special at all, which is very much Amazon’s sweet spot.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe AWS IPODateWednesday, May 6, 2015The 2015 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateMonday, December 28, 2015Paradigm Shifts and the Winner’s CurseDateWednesday, August 6, 2025←Gelsinger Out at Intel, What Happened, Ten Years Too LateAn Interview with Tae Kim about Jensen Huang and The Nvidia Way→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,On yesterday’s episode ofDithering, John and I discussed former Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger’s resignation/firing.On to the Update:AWS re:InventFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. is ramping up its artificial intelligence offerings, rolling out powerful new chip arrays and a large language model it says can compete with leading rivals. The Seattle-based company is stringing together hundreds of thousands of its Trainium2 semiconductors into clusters that will make it easier for partner Anthropic to train the large language models required for generative AI and other machine learning tasks. The new arrays will quintuple the startup’s current processing power, Amazon said. Amazon Web Services, the cloud services division, began offering its latest chips to customers on Tuesday, the company said at its annual re:Invent conference.Andy Jassy, marking his first appearance at the trade show since becoming Amazon’s chief executive officer in 2021, introduced the new models — called Nova. Capable of generating text, images and video, they represent Amazon’s latest effort to compete with OpenAI and other builders of the large language models that power chatbots and other generative AI tools. AWS, the largest seller of rented computing power, runs many of the servers that other companies rent to train artificial intelligence applications. AWS also makes models built by other companies, including Anthropic’s Claude and Meta Platforms Inc.’s Llama, available to AWS customers. But the company has yet to produce a large language model widely seen as competitive with OpenAI’s most advanced GPT models.I’ll get to the Jassy segment of thekeynotein a moment; in that I am following the lead of AWS CEO Matt Garman, who conducted most of the keynote and, while talking about traditional AWS topics like processors and databases, laid the groundwork for Jassy. For example, Garman started out by talking about all of the compute options AWS offered:The good news is lots of customers love EC2 too. Why? Because EC2 has more options, more instances, and more capabilities, and it helps you find the exact right performance for the workload that you need. In fact, at this point, we’ve grown to where EC2 has 850 different instance types across 126 different families. What that means is you can always find the exact right instance type for the workload that you need.Garman then spent some time explaining how this instance variety was possible due to Nitro, the custom networking and hypervisor management chip that sits alongside every AWS server:So one question I get from a lot of customers is, “How do you possibly sustain that level of innovation? What allows you to deliver so much?” One of the answers to that is Nitro. Nitro is our AWS virtualization system. Effectively, what we did is we designed a custom chip that offloads all of the virtualization for networking, for storage, and for compute, off into this separate Nitro card system. What that allows us to do is it allows us to deliver bare metal performance, it allows us to deliver unparalleled security and isolation for customers that unmatched anywhere in the cloud, but an interesting other benefit of Nitro is that it gives us a ton of flexibility. When we move all of the virtualization off into this Nitro system separately, it allows us to innovate independently, so we don’t have to redo the virtualization stack every time we have a new instance type. We can simply develop a great new server and then develop the virtualization stack independently and put them together. That allows us to move much faster, and it’s interesting: Nitro has been one of the keys that has really unlocked the speed of innovation in compute at AWS.Garman then explained how Nitro started Amazon down the path to building its own silicon, including Graviton, its ARM-based alternative to Intel and AMD, which Garman said offers 40% better price performance and 60% better energy utilization than x86. Garman also said that the amount of Graviton compute on AWS today exceeds the total amount of compute on the service in 2019 when Graviton launched.This, then, led to the discussion of Trainium2, Amazon’s own AI chip, which is now generally available, along with the announcement that Trainium3 is coming next year. The promise sounded familiar: 30-40% better price performance than current generation GPU-based instances (i.e. Nvidia Hopper). Of course AWS will be offering Nvidia’s new Blackwell GPUs as well.Nova and Model ChoiceJump forward to Jassy’s appearance, which was framed as a discussion of how Amazon is using generative AI internally. After running through a number of examples of Amazon services, Jassy had this to say:These are, by the way, just a few of the almost 1,000 generative AI applications that we are either building or have built inside of Amazon, and we have obviously learned a lot of lessons along the way, and I’d share a few of those with you — just three right now.First, is that as you get to scale in generative AI applications, the cost of compute really matters. All of our generative applications around the world, all of us, it’s primarily been built with one chip in that compute, and people are very hungry for better price performance, and that’s why people are so excited about Trainium2 as Matt was talking about earlier.Number two, it’s actually quite difficult to build a really big generative AI application. You need a good model, but it’s not just the model. In addition to the model, you have to have the right guardrails, you have to have the right fluency of the messaging, and you have to have the right UI, and you have to have the right latency, or it’s a really slow, laggy experience, and you have to have the right cost structure. I think a lot of times what happens is you build these apps, you use a great model, you do a little bit of work, and you think I have a great generative AI app, and it turns out that you are really only about 70% of the way there, and the reality is customers don’t take kindly to apps that have 30% wonkiness.And then, the third thing I would say, I have been surprised with all the internal building inside of Amazon, with the diversity of models being used. We gave our builders freedom to pick what they want to do, and I figured that almost everybody would end up using Anthropic’s Claude models because they’re the very best performing models in the world, and have been for the last year or so. And by the way, we have a lot of our internal builders using Claude. But, they’re also using Llama models. They’re also using Mistral models, and they’re also using some of our own models, and they’re also using home-grown models themselves.So this kind of surprised us, but in some ways, as I think about it, it doesn’t surprise us, because we keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again, which is that there is never going to be one tool to rule the world. It’s not the case in databases — we’ve been talking about this for ten years, people use lots of different relational databases or non-relational databases – it’s not the case in analytics. I remember six, seven years ago being on stage, and we were talking about how everybody thought that Tensorflow was going to be the one AI framework. We kept saying there are going to be a lot of them, and there were, and it turns out that PyTorch ended up being the most popular one. And the same is going to be true for models. We see this internally.What we’ve noticed is as we’ve been building all these applications is that our internal builders have been asking for all sorts of things from our teams that are building models. They want better latency, they want lower costs, they want the ability to do fine-tuning. They want the ability to better orchestrate across their different knowledge bases to be able to ground their data. They want to take lots of automated orchestrated actions, or what people call agentic behavior. They want better image and video. They want a whole bunch of things. We share that feedback with our model provider partners, and they’re accepted, but they’re busy. You guys want a lot! There’s a lot to do.And so it’s one of the reasons why we have continued to work on our own frontier models, and those frontier models have made a tremendous amount of progress over the last four to five months, and we figured if we were finding value out of them, you would probably find value out of them, so I’m excited to share and announce the launch of Amazon Nova, which are our new state-of-the-art foundation models that deliver frontier intelligence at industry-leading price performance.Forgive the long excerpt, but this is maybe the best articulation yet of AWS’s AI strategy, which, unsurprisingly, looks a lot like the AWS strategy generally.First is that bit about choice. Just as AWS offers a huge amount of choice in processing or databases, AWS will offer choice in models. Second, while I skipped over the Bedrock portion of Garman’s presentation, that is the Nitro in this analogy. Bedrock is AWS’s managed service for models, and it has features that Jassy listed: fine-tuning, integration across knowlege bases, agent orchestration, etc. Third, while Bedrock will offer access to 3rd-party models, just as AWS offers access to third-party chips, the biggest benefit to Amazon itself, and over-time the likely cheapest option for 3rd-party developers, will be Amazon’s own offering.Nova itself seems fine; onLiveBenchNova Pro ranks just behind Gemini 1.5 Flash, Llama 3.1 70b, and just ahead of Claude 3.5 Haiku and GPT 4o Mini; that’s a fair bit off the pace from Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT 4o, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Meta Llama 3.1 405b. It’s also much cheaper than Claude’s high-end model (although more expensive that Llama 3.2 90b). The big focus seems to be latency: Jassy emphasized its speed, and you’ll note how he called out latency as the first request from his internal teams.AI as CommodityIn March 2023, Dylan Patel at SemiAnalysis wrote an article entitled,Amazon’s Cloud Crisis: How AWS Will Lose the Future of Computing, where he highlighted Nitro as a brilliant innovation that helped AWS dominate commodity compute, but a significant limiter on the company’s AI capabilities:Amazon is installing their 5th generation Nitro which was designed in-house. The advantages that Nitro brings from an infrastructure cost perspective cannot be understated. It enables much lower costs for Amazon, which can then be passed on to customers, or result in higher margins. With that said, Amazon’s Nitro also has some major drawbacks…Amazon is actively hampering its efforts in AI clusters. Compute is only part of the equation. Networking is the other side and arguably just as important. Rather than implement the best networking from Nvidia and/or Broadcom, Amazon is using its own Nitro and Elastic Fabric Adaptor (EFA) networking. This works well for many workloads, plus it delivers a cost, performance, and security advantage.There are business, cultural, and security reasons why Amazon will not implement other networking. The cultural one is important. Nitro and networking SoC’s generally have been Amazon’s biggest cost advantage for years. It’s ingrained into their DNA. Even EFA delivers on this too, but they don’t see how new workloads are evolving and that a new tier is needed due to the lack of foresight in their internal workload and infrastructure teams. Amazon is making a deliberate choice of not adopting that we believe will bite them in the future.Patel and company havea new article up this weekabout Trainium2 and how AWS is building out that big cluster for Anthropic, including a detailed explanation about the company’s new approaches to both scale-up networking (to increased the number of chips in a server) and scale-out networking (to increase cluster size). It will certainly be interesting to see how well that ends up working out for Anthropic and the models they will train on AWS’ infrastructure.At the same time, the Anthropic training cluster felt like the exception to AWS’ approach, not the rule: the emphasis on “choice” in the presentation, first in terms of regular AWS, and then later in terms of AI, is another way to say that the options are, in the end, mere commodities. Sure, the cutting edge for both inference and especially training will be Nvidia, and AWS will offer Nvidia instances (to the extent they fit in AWS’ network), but AWS’s bet is that a necessary component of generative AI being productized is that models fade in importance. Note this bit from Garman leading up to his Bedrock discussion:We talked about wanting this set of building blocks that builders could use to invent anything that they could imagine. We also talked about how many of the cases we walked through today, that we’ve redefined how people thought about these as applications change. Now people’s expectations are actually changing for applications again with generative AI, and increasingly my view is generative AI inference is going to be a core building block for every single application. In fact, I think generative AI actually has the potential to transform every single industry, every single company out there, every single workflow out there, every single user experience out there…This expansive view of generative AI’s importance — notice how Garman put it on the same level as the compute, storage, and database primitives — emphasizes the importance of it becoming a commodity, with commodity-like concerns about price, performance, and flexibility. In other words, exactly what AWS excels at. To put it another way, AWS’s bet is that AI will be important enough that it won’t, in the end, be special at all, which is very much Amazon’s sweet spot.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Amazon.com Inc. is ramping up its artificial intelligence offerings, rolling out powerful new chip arrays and a large language model it says can compete with leading rivals. The Seattle-based company is stringing together hundreds of thousands of its Trainium2 semiconductors into clusters that will make it easier for partner Anthropic to train the large language models required for generative AI and other machine learning tasks. The new arrays will quintuple the startup’s current processing power, Amazon said. Amazon Web Services, the cloud services division, began offering its latest chips to customers on Tuesday, the company said at its annual re:Invent conference. Andy Jassy, marking his first appearance at the trade show since becoming Amazon’s chief executive officer in 2021, introduced the new models — called Nova. Capable of generating text, images and video, they represent Amazon’s latest effort to compete with OpenAI and other builders of the large language models that power chatbots and other generative AI tools. AWS, the largest seller of rented computing power, runs many of the servers that other companies rent to train artificial intelligence applications. AWS also makes models built by other companies, including Anthropic’s Claude and Meta Platforms Inc.’s Llama, available to AWS customers. But the company has yet to produce a large language model widely seen as competitive with OpenAI’s most advanced GPT models. I’ll get to the Jassy segment of thekeynotein a moment; in that I am following the lead of AWS CEO Matt Garman, who conducted most of the keynote and, while talking about traditional AWS topics like processors and databases, laid the groundwork for Jassy. For example, Garman started out by talking about all of the compute options AWS offered: The good news is lots of customers love EC2 too. Why? Because EC2 has more options, more instances, and more capabilities, and it helps you find the exact right performance for the workload that you need. In fact, at this point, we’ve grown to where EC2 has 850 different instance types across 126 different families. What that means is you can always find the exact right instance type for the workload that you need. So one question I get from a lot of customers is, “How do you possibly sustain that level of innovation? What allows you to deliver so much?” One of the answers to that is Nitro. Nitro is our AWS virtualization system. Effectively, what we did is we designed a custom chip that offloads all of the virtualization for networking, for storage, and for compute, off into this separate Nitro card system. What that allows us to do is it allows us to deliver bare metal performance, it allows us to deliver unparalleled security and isolation for customers that unmatched anywhere in the cloud, but an interesting other benefit of Nitro is that it gives us a ton of flexibility. When we move all of the virtualization off into this Nitro system separately, it allows us to innovate independently, so we don’t have to redo the virtualization stack every time we have a new instance type. We can simply develop a great new server and then develop the virtualization stack independently and put them together. That allows us to move much faster, and it’s interesting: Nitro has been one of the keys that has really unlocked the speed of innovation in compute at AWS. Garman then explained how Nitro started Amazon down the path to building its own silicon, including Graviton, its ARM-based alternative to Intel and AMD, which Garman said offers 40% better price performance and 60% better energy utilization than x86. Garman also said that the amount of Graviton compute on AWS today exceeds the total amount of compute on the service in 2019 when Graviton launched. This, then, led to the discussion of Trainium2, Amazon’s own AI chip, which is now generally available, along with the announcement that Trainium3 is coming next year. The promise sounded familiar: 30-40% better price performance than current generation GPU-based instances (i.e. Nvidia Hopper). Of course AWS will be offering Nvidia’s new Blackwell GPUs as well. Jump forward to Jassy’s appearance, which was framed as a discussion of how Amazon is using generative AI internally. After running through a number of examples of Amazon services, Jassy had this to say: These are, by the way, just a few of the almost 1,000 generative AI applications that we are either building or have built inside of Amazon, and we have obviously learned a lot of lessons along the way, and I’d share a few of those with you — just three right now. First, is that as you get to scale in generative AI applications, the cost of compute really matters. All of our generative applications around the world, all of us, it’s primarily been built with one chip in that compute, and people are very hungry for better price performance, and that’s why people are so excited about Trainium2 as Matt was talking about earlier. Number two, it’s actually quite difficult to build a really big generative AI application. You need a good model, but it’s not just the model. In addition to the model, you have to have the right guardrails, you have to have the right fluency of the messaging, and you have to have the right UI, and you have to have the right latency, or it’s a really slow, laggy experience, and you have to have the right cost structure. I think a lot of times what happens is you build these apps, you use a great model, you do a little bit of work, and you think I have a great generative AI app, and it turns out that you are really only about 70% of the way there, and the reality is customers don’t take kindly to apps that have 30% wonkiness. And then, the third thing I would say, I have been surprised with all the internal building inside of Amazon, with the diversity of models being used. We gave our builders freedom to pick what they want to do, and I figured that almost everybody would end up using Anthropic’s Claude models because they’re the very best performing models in the world, and have been for the last year or so. And by the way, we have a lot of our internal builders using Claude. But, they’re also using Llama models. They’re also using Mistral models, and they’re also using some of our own models, and they’re also using home-grown models themselves. So this kind of surprised us, but in some ways, as I think about it, it doesn’t surprise us, because we keep learning the same lesson over and over and over again, which is that there is never going to be one tool to rule the world. It’s not the case in databases — we’ve been talking about this for ten years, people use lots of different relational databases or non-relational databases – it’s not the case in analytics. I remember six, seven years ago being on stage, and we were talking about how everybody thought that Tensorflow was going to be the one AI framework. We kept saying there are going to be a lot of them, and there were, and it turns out that PyTorch ended up being the most popular one. And the same is going to be true for models. We see this internally. What we’ve noticed is as we’ve been building all these applications is that our internal builders have been asking for all sorts of things from our teams that are building models. They want better latency, they want lower costs, they want the ability to do fine-tuning. They want the ability to better orchestrate across their different knowledge bases to be able to ground their data. They want to take lots of automated orchestrated actions, or what people call agentic behavior. They want better image and video. They want a whole bunch of things. We share that feedback with our model provider partners, and they’re accepted, but they’re busy. You guys want a lot! There’s a lot to do. And so it’s one of the reasons why we have continued to work on our own frontier models, and those frontier models have made a tremendous amount of progress over the last four to five months, and we figured if we were finding value out of them, you would probably find value out of them, so I’m excited to share and announce the launch of Amazon Nova, which are our new state-of-the-art foundation models that deliver frontier intelligence at industry-leading price performance. First is that bit about choice. Just as AWS offers a huge amount of choice in processing or databases, AWS will offer choice in models. Second, while I skipped over the Bedrock portion of Garman’s presentation, that is the Nitro in this analogy. Bedrock is AWS’s managed service for models, and it has features that Jassy listed: fine-tuning, integration across knowlege bases, agent orchestration, etc. Third, while Bedrock will offer access to 3rd-party models, just as AWS offers access to third-party chips, the biggest benefit to Amazon itself, and over-time the likely cheapest option for 3rd-party developers, will be Amazon’s own offering. Nova itself seems fine; onLiveBenchNova Pro ranks just behind Gemini 1.5 Flash, Llama 3.1 70b, and just ahead of Claude 3.5 Haiku and GPT 4o Mini; that’s a fair bit off the pace from Claude 3.5 Sonnet, GPT 4o, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Meta Llama 3.1 405b. It’s also much cheaper than Claude’s high-end model (although more expensive that Llama 3.2 90b). The big focus seems to be latency: Jassy emphasized its speed, and you’ll note how he called out latency as the first request from his internal teams. In March 2023, Dylan Patel at SemiAnalysis wrote an article entitled,Amazon’s Cloud Crisis: How AWS Will Lose the Future of Computing, where he highlighted Nitro as a brilliant innovation that helped AWS dominate commodity compute, but a significant limiter on the company’s AI capabilities: Amazon is installing their 5th generation Nitro which was designed in-house. The advantages that Nitro brings from an infrastructure cost perspective cannot be understated. It enables much lower costs for Amazon, which can then be passed on to customers, or result in higher margins. With that said, Amazon’s Nitro also has some major drawbacks… Amazon is actively hampering its efforts in AI clusters. Compute is only part of the equation. Networking is the other side and arguably just as important. Rather than implement the best networking from Nvidia and/or Broadcom, Amazon is using its own Nitro and Elastic Fabric Adaptor (EFA) networking. This works well for many workloads, plus it delivers a cost, performance, and security advantage. There are business, cultural, and security reasons why Amazon will not implement other networking. The cultural one is important. Nitro and networking SoC’s generally have been Amazon’s biggest cost advantage for years. It’s ingrained into their DNA. Even EFA delivers on this too, but they don’t see how new workloads are evolving and that a new tier is needed due to the lack of foresight in their internal workload and infrastructure teams. Amazon is making a deliberate choice of not adopting that we believe will bite them in the future. Patel and company havea new article up this weekabout Trainium2 and how AWS is building out that big cluster for Anthropic, including a detailed explanation about the company’s new approaches to both scale-up networking (to increased the number of chips in a server) and scale-out networking (to increase cluster size). It will certainly be interesting to see how well that ends up working out for Anthropic and the models they will train on AWS’ infrastructure. At the same time, the Anthropic training cluster felt like the exception to AWS’ approach, not the rule: the emphasis on “choice” in the presentation, first in terms of regular AWS, and then later in terms of AI, is another way to say that the options are, in the end, mere commodities. Sure, the cutting edge for both inference and especially training will be Nvidia, and AWS will offer Nvidia instances (to the extent they fit in AWS’ network), but AWS’s bet is that a necessary component of generative AI being productized is that models fade in importance. Note this bit from Garman leading up to his Bedrock discussion: We talked about wanting this set of building blocks that builders could use to invent anything that they could imagine. We also talked about how many of the cases we walked through today, that we’ve redefined how people thought about these as applications change. Now people’s expectations are actually changing for applications again with generative AI, and increasingly my view is generative AI inference is going to be a core building block for every single application. In fact, I think generative AI actually has the potential to transform every single industry, every single company out there, every single workflow out there, every single user experience out there… This expansive view of generative AI’s importance — notice how Garman put it on the same level as the compute, storage, and database primitives — emphasizes the importance of it becoming a commodity, with commodity-like concerns about price, performance, and flexibility. In other words, exactly what AWS excels at. To put it another way, AWS’s bet is that AI will be important enough that it won’t, in the end, be special at all, which is very much Amazon’s sweet spot. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025