# [PODCAST] Green energy gridlock

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/05/16/1176462647/green-energy-transmission-queue-power-grid-wind-solar
**Atlas ID**: 229502
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.848126

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Wind, solar, and the long line to connect to the electrical grid : Planet MoneyLyle Jack wants to build a wind farm on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. But to make the project work, he has to connect that wind farm to the electric grid. Which is easier said than done. On today's show - how the green energy revolution may live, or die, by bureaucrats trying to untangle a mess of wires.This episode was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Katherine Silva. Jess Jiang is our acting executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkGreen energy gridlockMay 24, 20237:15 PM ETByDan Charles,Nick Fountain,Willa Rubin,Sally HelmGreen energy gridlockListen·22:2322:23TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1176462647/1198959476" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageLyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPRLyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRThe Pine Ridge Reservation is in the southwest corner of South Dakota, and it iswindy. In fact, Lyle Jack realized his tribe, the Oglala Lakota Nation, and many other tribes in this area, could pay for lots of things they needed, just by harvesting some of that wind.Which is why, for the past 20 years, Lyle has been trying to build a wind farm on the reservation. He's overcome a lot of hurdles, like persuading a majority of the tribes in South Dakota to join forces and form a company. They picked a spot to build the windmills where the wind blows hard and – crucially – where there's a power line. That will allow this wind farm to connect to the electric grid.Enlarge this imageThese power lines on the Pine Ridge Reservation, in South Dakota, would need to be rebuilt to carry electricity from a planned wind farm.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPRThese power lines on the Pine Ridge Reservation, in South Dakota, would need to be rebuilt to carry electricity from a planned wind farm.Dan Charles/NPRThis is where Lyle ran into the obstacle that stopped his project in its tracks. So many people want to connect their new solar and wind projects to the grid right now that it's creating a massive traffic jam. All those projects are stuck in line: the interconnection queue.Sponsor MessageOn today's show: the long line for power lines. Green energy may be the future, but at the moment, the people who run the country's electric grid are trying to figure out how to bring all those new projects online.  It's a high-tension tightrope act, but if they succeed, it could ensure the future of the planet. No pressure.Planet MoneyBlood, oil, and the Osage Nation: The battle over headrightsThis episode was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Katherine Silva. Jess Jiang is our acting executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Funky Reverie," "Inner Desert Blues" and "Blues Swagger."FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Green energy gridlockListen·22:2322:23TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1176462647/1198959476" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Green energy gridlockListen·22:2322:23TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1176462647/1198959476" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1176462647/1198959476" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageLyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPRLyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRThe Pine Ridge Reservation is in the southwest corner of South Dakota, and it iswindy. In fact, Lyle Jack realized his tribe, the Oglala Lakota Nation, and many other tribes in this area, could pay for lots of things they needed, just by harvesting some of that wind.Which is why, for the past 20 years, Lyle has been trying to build a wind farm on the reservation. He's overcome a lot of hurdles, like persuading a majority of the tribes in South Dakota to join forces and form a company. They picked a spot to build the windmills where the wind blows hard and – crucially – where there's a power line. That will allow this wind farm to connect to the electric grid.Enlarge this imageThese power lines on the Pine Ridge Reservation, in South Dakota, would need to be rebuilt to carry electricity from a planned wind farm.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPRThese power lines on the Pine Ridge Reservation, in South Dakota, would need to be rebuilt to carry electricity from a planned wind farm.Dan Charles/NPRThis is where Lyle ran into the obstacle that stopped his project in its tracks. So many people want to connect their new solar and wind projects to the grid right now that it's creating a massive traffic jam. All those projects are stuck in line: the interconnection queue.Sponsor MessageOn today's show: the long line for power lines. Green energy may be the future, but at the moment, the people who run the country's electric grid are trying to figure out how to bring all those new projects online.  It's a high-tension tightrope act, but if they succeed, it could ensure the future of the planet. No pressure.Planet MoneyBlood, oil, and the Osage Nation: The battle over headrightsThis episode was produced by Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact-checked by Sierra Juarez, and engineered by Katherine Silva. Jess Jiang is our acting executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Funky Reverie," "Inner Desert Blues" and "Blues Swagger." Enlarge this imageLyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPRLyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPR Lyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPR Lyle Jack stands in front of an electrical substation on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, where he's hoping to connect a wind farm to the power grid.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle caption The Pine Ridge Reservation is in the southwest corner of South Dakota, and it iswindy. In fact, Lyle Jack realized his tribe, the Oglala Lakota Nation, and many other tribes in this area, could pay for lots of things they needed, just by harvesting some of that wind. Which is why, for the past 20 years, Lyle has been trying to build a wind farm on the reservation. He's overcome a lot of hurdles, like persuading a majority of the tribes in South Dakota to join forces and form a company. They picked a spot to build the windmills where the wind blows hard and – crucially – where there's a power line. That will allow this wind farm to connect to the electric grid. Enlarge this imageThese power lines on the Pine Ridge Reservation, in South Dakota, would need to be rebuilt to carry electricity from a planned wind farm.Dan Charles/NPRhide captiontoggle captionDan Charles/NPRThese power lines on the Pine Ridge Reservation, in South Dakota, would need to be rebuilt to carry electricity from a planned wind farm.Dan Charles/NPR This is where Lyle ran into the obstacle that stopped his project in its tracks. So many people want to connect their new solar and wind projects to the grid right now that it's creating a massive traffic jam. All those projects are stuck in line: the interconnection queue. On today's show: the long line for power lines. Green energy may be the future, but at the moment, the people who run the country's electric grid are trying to figure out how to bring all those new projects online.  It's a high-tension tightrope act, but if they succeed, it could ensure the future of the planet. No pressure. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra