# [PODCAST] Microsoft Earnings, Microsoft's Core Capability, Amazon Earnings

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/microsoft-earnings-microsofts-core-capability-amazon-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.EXm8ys0QUXhPlXTPIhb19PsKOThHEEu_QSaRgL1VjyB9N2zPqPFG6OU1diXLIYSBXsby1rQx3LYmKVndQcHuyr5SDEn7eXf2wZX-jnKHRQQyA_mtLGoktWAWkjMGyIrxqFvbK_qMJhFTvzXJbXdt9GlhjHsYh-p5VfB-a6XmtJfENeT3kZ5IRt4eD37-9VzH8bo7Qs5d9D6SZgY-HYp9cDLV6A4z5xysmoe7a7tZg6DcFG9mFVlPqzKZ8oqR1sbbmQa0B_xyfvL_wJgPy2DDRvjkBdPFsNV8VeEgNL37JHUaZZSVf8KU_MrrYafHIvUaU2n-BARiAS-l2K9kzmAbhQ
**Atlas ID**: 229580
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.889054

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirMicrosoft Earnings, Microsoft’s Core Capability, Amazon EarningsWednesday, May 7, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it yesterday, two scheduling announcements:This week’s Stratechery Interview will be published on Friday, not Thursday, so there will be no email tomorrow.I will be taking next Monday off as I will be traveling.If you haven’t been watching the NBA playoffs, you’re missing quite the spectacle; if you want to catch up there is no better podcast to do so thanGreatest of All Talk.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFromBloomberg:Microsoft Corp. shares jumped after the company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly sales and profit growth, suggesting customer demand for cloud services has held steady despite a wave of tariffs and economic turbulence. Total revenue in the fiscal third quarter increased 13% to $70.1 billion, while adjusted profit was $3.46 a share, the company said in a statement Wednesday. Analysts on average estimated sales of $68.5 billion and adjusted per-share earnings of $3.21.The world’s largest software maker is considered a leader in commercializing AI products, thanks to its close partnership with ChatGPT maker OpenAI. In addition to providing computing infrastructure, Microsoft has launched AI assistants in widely used productivity applications such as Office and Excel. The Azure cloud unit, which sells computing power and other services, posted a 33% revenue gain in the quarter, beating the Wall Street estimate of 29%. The company attributed 16 percentage points of Azure’s third-quarter growth to AI, compared with 13 points in the prior quarter and said a new cloud commitment from OpenAI helped drive bookings.The software titan saw its share price jump 7% in after-hours trading on Wednesday following its fiscal third quarter report. The report showed strong growth in revenue and earnings across all of the company’s business segments, with the closely watched Azure cloud service solidly beating Wall Street’s forecasts.Everyone is very excited about the big Azure beat, but CFO Amy Hood took care to be crystal clear onthe earnings callthat the AI numbers, to the extent they beat, were simply because a bit more capacity came on line earlier than expected; the actual beat was in plain old cloud computing. From Hood’s prepared remarks:Focused execution drove non-AI services results where we saw accelerated growth in our enterprise customer segment, as well as some improvement in our scale motions. And in Azure AI services, we brought capacity online faster than expected.Hood further clarified in response to a question:Just to provide some clarity because I think your question implies something that we didn’t mean to imply on the call. First, the real outperformance in Azure this quarter was in our non-AI business. So then to talk about the AI business, really, what was better was precisely what we said. We talked about this. We knew Q3 that we had and hadn’t really match supply and demand pretty carefully and didn’t expect to do much better than we had guided to on the AI side. We’ve been quite consistent on that.So the only real upside we saw on the AI side of the business was that we were able to deliver supply early to a number of customers. And being able to do that throughout the quarter creates quite a good benefit to us. But the majority of our outperformance versus where we had expected to be was on the non-AI piece of the business.This isn’t a bad thing, of course; Microsoft’s revenue outpaced its expense growth, including increased depreciation from its previous investments in AI. Cash flow did decrease year-over-year, but as long as Microsoft keeps meeting its expectations in terms of AI revenue increases, that will ultimately prove to be justified.To that end, Microsoft introduced a metric I hadn’t seen before: number of tokens processed. From Nadella’s prepared remarks:We processed over 100 trillion tokens this quarter, up 5x year-over-year, including a record 50 trillion tokens last month alone. And four months in over 10,000 organizations have used our new agent service to build, deploy and scale their agents.I hope Microsoft keeps reporting this number, and that everyone else making huge investments in AI follows.Microsoft’s Core CapabilityThere were two points CEO Satya Nadella made that I thought worth highlighting. The first was, in many respects, the capstone to the way in which he has transformed the company; this is what Nadella said in response to a question about AI growth versus Azure growth, and what connection there might be between them:And if I step back, and Amy and I talk a lot about this, this time around, there’s nothing certain for sure in the future, except for one thing, which is our largest business is our infrastructure business. And the good news here is the next big platform shift builds on that.So it’s not a complete rebuild, having gone through all these platform shifts where you have to come out on the other side with a full rebuild. If there is good news here is that we have a good business in Azure that continues to grow and the new platform depends on that. So we want to stay disciplined and execute super well on that.On one hand, this wasn’t as definitive an answer as the questioner — and I! — wanted; the biggest bull case for Microsoft is that its AI offerings are not only growing in their own right, but explicitly driving Azure growth. Nadella said there is a bit of that, but didn’t really commit to that being a core driver.On the other hand, what is notable about this statement is just how unremarkable it is to assert that Microsoft is an infrastructure company; I know I’ve said it before, butWindows is truly dead as a company driver. The Article that link points to is from 2018, so yes, this observation is old hat, but the reason it’s worth noting now is that it was that previous shift that prepared Microsoft to capitalize on AI.The obvious contrast is Microsoft’s long-time partner Intel; I wrote inApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past:Missing mobile was a big problem for Intel’s integrated device manufacturing model: the company, in the long run, would not have the volume and the associated financial support of mobile customers to keep up with TSMC. Today the company is struggling to turn itself into a foundry — a company that manufactures chips for external customers — and would like nothing more than to receive a contract from the likes of Apple, not for an Intel chip, but for an ARM-based one…This, in the end, was Intel’s ultimate failing: today there is massive demand for foundry capacity, but not for mobile; what the world wants is more AI chips, particularly from a company (Nvidia) which has regularly been willing to dual source its supply. Intel, though, has yet to meet the call; the cost of the company not opening itself up after its mobile miss is that it wasn’t prepared for the next opportunity that came along.Those two paragraphs don’t flow neatly because they are far apart in the Article, but they very much go together: if Intel had overhauled their business in response to mobile in the only way that was viable — becoming a foundry — they would be very well-placed today to build AI chips; they didn’t, so they aren’t. Microsoft, on the other hand, reacted to their mobile miss by de-prioritizing Windows and becoming a cloud provider (that mostly ran Linux, natch); that meant they were ready for the next major opportunity that came along, which was AI.The second comment was about the part of Microsoft that endures, which is that it is a software company. Nadella again:I mean I think at a macro level, I think the way to think about this is you can ask the question, what’s the difference between a hosting business and a hyperscale business. It’s software. That’s, I think, the gist of it. We asked for sure, it’s a capital-intensive business, but capital efficiency comes from that system-wide software optimization. And that’s what makes the hyperscale business attractive and that’s what we want to just keep executing super well on.Nadella added in response to a follow-up question:You know, the idea that you can have test time compute plus pre-training and then some of the great optimization at inference time that has all happened has proven up. I mean if you look at I would say, for every Moore’s Law change and movement there’s probably a 10x improvement because of software, right? That’s sort of what’s happening with these models.Some of it comes from model architecture, some of that comes from data efficiency, compute efficiency and what have you. So that’s what we are writing. And we feel that all up, when you have a commodity that is getting that better, then the question is how do you build out a fleet that’s super balanced. So that then the workloads can be built and can, in fact, take advantage of that efficiency and the underlying infrastructure.I mean it’s kind of like virtualization. What is the difference between servers and, sort of, again, client server with virtualization, it was efficiency. What is the difference between virtualization and cloud, it was efficiency. What is the difference between this generation of cloud and AI, it’s efficiency. So the more you can, kind of, continue to think about software driving that efficiency is what drives demand ultimately.To go back to the foundry analogy, the best way to get leverage on the massive costs involved is to make as many chips as possible; in the case of Microsoft, the best way to get leverage on software capability is to serve as many customers as possible. And, Nadella argues, there’s a second advantage: because software can increase the efficiency of underlying hardware, that leverage is itself leveraged by increasing the number of customers who can use the same unit of hardware.One interesting implication of this is that it is bullish for Nvidia, given that GPUs are more generalizable than ASICs and thus more able to be optimized by software; Wintel is dead; long live Microvidia!Amazon EarningsFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. said it’s bracing for a tougher business climate in the coming months, echoing concerns from a range of companies that tariffs and related economic turmoil could crimp consumer spending. When it reported results Thursday, the world’s largest online retailer posted a decent first quarter but said operating profit in the current period would be weaker than Wall Street anticipated. Amazon projected operating profit of $13 billion to $17.5 billion, compared with an average estimate of $17.8 billion. Sales will be $159 billion to $164 billion in the period ending in June, the company said in a statement. Analysts, on average, expected $161.4 billion.While Microsoft’s earnings call was all AI all the time, Amazon’searning callwas understandably primarily concerned with more pressing matters related to Amazon.com. I’m not going to get too much into tariffs and whatnot — we’ll all bracing right now to see what happens as ports start to dry up — but I thought this comment from CEO Andy Jassy’s prepared remarks about how Amazon is reshaping its inbound network was interesting:Over the past few years, we’ve made significant progress in making our fulfillment network more efficient and cost effective. We’ve shared many times that an important turning point was regionalizing our national fulfillment network into regional hubs. By stocking items closer to where customers live, we’re able to deliver more orders faster often in fewer packages and at lower delivery costs. The next challenge was getting as many items as possible into these regional nodes.Our inbound network which is how we get items to each fulfillment center hadn’t been architected to leverage this new regionalization structure. So, we redesigned it and just rolled out a new inbound architecture that expands the share of products that we can place in each fulfillment center improving delivery speeds and lowering our cost to serve. In the first quarter, we once again set new delivery speed records with our fastest delivery ever for Prime members around the world and we delivered more items in the same day or next day in Q1 than any other quarter in our history.The thought that occurred to me while reading this is how remarkable Amazon is at making capital expenditures: these changes cost a lot of money, but they both improve margins by reducing cost of fulfillment, and increase revenue because faster delivery drives more purchases. That, by extension, increases the leverage they get on their capital expenditure. This is Amazon’s core strength.It’s interesting, then, to see how this applies to the company’s approach to AI. First, while I mentioned that there was a lot less AI on Amazon’s call than Microsoft’s, it wasn’t just because of tariffs: Jassy’s prepared remarks about AWS emphasized how much non-AI enterprise IT spend still needed to move to the cloud; that happens to be the sort of workloads where Amazon’s deep investments in custom architecture are most beneficial.Perhaps it’s not a surprise, then, that Jassy’s AI discussion prominently featured Amazon’s custom architecture:At the bottom layer for those building models, our new custom AI chip Trainium 2 is starting to lay in capacity in larger quantities with significant appeal and demand. While we offer customers the ability to do AI in multiple chip providers and will for as long as I can proceed, customers doing AI at any significant scale realize that it can get expensive quickly. So, the 30% to 40% better price performance that Trainium 2 offers versus other GPU based instances is compelling. For AI to be as successful as we believe it can be, the price of inference needs to come down significantly. We consider this part of our mission and responsibility to help make it so.Notice the contrast with Microsoft. Both companies talked about AI efficiency, but Nadella was resolute that software was the answer; Jassy’s focus was on custom infrastructure, which is to say capital expenditures. In other words, while both companies are pursuing AI workloads, the means by which they hope to win in those markets ultimately comes back to what is their core capability.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 2025Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025The 2022 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateTuesday, December 20, 2022←Meta Earnings, Meta’s Deteriorating Ad Metrics, CapEx MetaAn Interview with SAP CEO Christian Klein About Enterprise AI→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Microsoft Earnings, Microsoft’s Core Capability, Amazon EarningsWednesday, May 7, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it yesterday, two scheduling announcements:This week’s Stratechery Interview will be published on Friday, not Thursday, so there will be no email tomorrow.I will be taking next Monday off as I will be traveling.If you haven’t been watching the NBA playoffs, you’re missing quite the spectacle; if you want to catch up there is no better podcast to do so thanGreatest of All Talk.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFromBloomberg:Microsoft Corp. shares jumped after the company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly sales and profit growth, suggesting customer demand for cloud services has held steady despite a wave of tariffs and economic turbulence. Total revenue in the fiscal third quarter increased 13% to $70.1 billion, while adjusted profit was $3.46 a share, the company said in a statement Wednesday. Analysts on average estimated sales of $68.5 billion and adjusted per-share earnings of $3.21.The world’s largest software maker is considered a leader in commercializing AI products, thanks to its close partnership with ChatGPT maker OpenAI. In addition to providing computing infrastructure, Microsoft has launched AI assistants in widely used productivity applications such as Office and Excel. The Azure cloud unit, which sells computing power and other services, posted a 33% revenue gain in the quarter, beating the Wall Street estimate of 29%. The company attributed 16 percentage points of Azure’s third-quarter growth to AI, compared with 13 points in the prior quarter and said a new cloud commitment from OpenAI helped drive bookings.The software titan saw its share price jump 7% in after-hours trading on Wednesday following its fiscal third quarter report. The report showed strong growth in revenue and earnings across all of the company’s business segments, with the closely watched Azure cloud service solidly beating Wall Street’s forecasts.Everyone is very excited about the big Azure beat, but CFO Amy Hood took care to be crystal clear onthe earnings callthat the AI numbers, to the extent they beat, were simply because a bit more capacity came on line earlier than expected; the actual beat was in plain old cloud computing. From Hood’s prepared remarks:Focused execution drove non-AI services results where we saw accelerated growth in our enterprise customer segment, as well as some improvement in our scale motions. And in Azure AI services, we brought capacity online faster than expected.Hood further clarified in response to a question:Just to provide some clarity because I think your question implies something that we didn’t mean to imply on the call. First, the real outperformance in Azure this quarter was in our non-AI business. So then to talk about the AI business, really, what was better was precisely what we said. We talked about this. We knew Q3 that we had and hadn’t really match supply and demand pretty carefully and didn’t expect to do much better than we had guided to on the AI side. We’ve been quite consistent on that.So the only real upside we saw on the AI side of the business was that we were able to deliver supply early to a number of customers. And being able to do that throughout the quarter creates quite a good benefit to us. But the majority of our outperformance versus where we had expected to be was on the non-AI piece of the business.This isn’t a bad thing, of course; Microsoft’s revenue outpaced its expense growth, including increased depreciation from its previous investments in AI. Cash flow did decrease year-over-year, but as long as Microsoft keeps meeting its expectations in terms of AI revenue increases, that will ultimately prove to be justified.To that end, Microsoft introduced a metric I hadn’t seen before: number of tokens processed. From Nadella’s prepared remarks:We processed over 100 trillion tokens this quarter, up 5x year-over-year, including a record 50 trillion tokens last month alone. And four months in over 10,000 organizations have used our new agent service to build, deploy and scale their agents.I hope Microsoft keeps reporting this number, and that everyone else making huge investments in AI follows.Microsoft’s Core CapabilityThere were two points CEO Satya Nadella made that I thought worth highlighting. The first was, in many respects, the capstone to the way in which he has transformed the company; this is what Nadella said in response to a question about AI growth versus Azure growth, and what connection there might be between them:And if I step back, and Amy and I talk a lot about this, this time around, there’s nothing certain for sure in the future, except for one thing, which is our largest business is our infrastructure business. And the good news here is the next big platform shift builds on that.So it’s not a complete rebuild, having gone through all these platform shifts where you have to come out on the other side with a full rebuild. If there is good news here is that we have a good business in Azure that continues to grow and the new platform depends on that. So we want to stay disciplined and execute super well on that.On one hand, this wasn’t as definitive an answer as the questioner — and I! — wanted; the biggest bull case for Microsoft is that its AI offerings are not only growing in their own right, but explicitly driving Azure growth. Nadella said there is a bit of that, but didn’t really commit to that being a core driver.On the other hand, what is notable about this statement is just how unremarkable it is to assert that Microsoft is an infrastructure company; I know I’ve said it before, butWindows is truly dead as a company driver. The Article that link points to is from 2018, so yes, this observation is old hat, but the reason it’s worth noting now is that it was that previous shift that prepared Microsoft to capitalize on AI.The obvious contrast is Microsoft’s long-time partner Intel; I wrote inApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past:Missing mobile was a big problem for Intel’s integrated device manufacturing model: the company, in the long run, would not have the volume and the associated financial support of mobile customers to keep up with TSMC. Today the company is struggling to turn itself into a foundry — a company that manufactures chips for external customers — and would like nothing more than to receive a contract from the likes of Apple, not for an Intel chip, but for an ARM-based one…This, in the end, was Intel’s ultimate failing: today there is massive demand for foundry capacity, but not for mobile; what the world wants is more AI chips, particularly from a company (Nvidia) which has regularly been willing to dual source its supply. Intel, though, has yet to meet the call; the cost of the company not opening itself up after its mobile miss is that it wasn’t prepared for the next opportunity that came along.Those two paragraphs don’t flow neatly because they are far apart in the Article, but they very much go together: if Intel had overhauled their business in response to mobile in the only way that was viable — becoming a foundry — they would be very well-placed today to build AI chips; they didn’t, so they aren’t. Microsoft, on the other hand, reacted to their mobile miss by de-prioritizing Windows and becoming a cloud provider (that mostly ran Linux, natch); that meant they were ready for the next major opportunity that came along, which was AI.The second comment was about the part of Microsoft that endures, which is that it is a software company. Nadella again:I mean I think at a macro level, I think the way to think about this is you can ask the question, what’s the difference between a hosting business and a hyperscale business. It’s software. That’s, I think, the gist of it. We asked for sure, it’s a capital-intensive business, but capital efficiency comes from that system-wide software optimization. And that’s what makes the hyperscale business attractive and that’s what we want to just keep executing super well on.Nadella added in response to a follow-up question:You know, the idea that you can have test time compute plus pre-training and then some of the great optimization at inference time that has all happened has proven up. I mean if you look at I would say, for every Moore’s Law change and movement there’s probably a 10x improvement because of software, right? That’s sort of what’s happening with these models.Some of it comes from model architecture, some of that comes from data efficiency, compute efficiency and what have you. So that’s what we are writing. And we feel that all up, when you have a commodity that is getting that better, then the question is how do you build out a fleet that’s super balanced. So that then the workloads can be built and can, in fact, take advantage of that efficiency and the underlying infrastructure.I mean it’s kind of like virtualization. What is the difference between servers and, sort of, again, client server with virtualization, it was efficiency. What is the difference between virtualization and cloud, it was efficiency. What is the difference between this generation of cloud and AI, it’s efficiency. So the more you can, kind of, continue to think about software driving that efficiency is what drives demand ultimately.To go back to the foundry analogy, the best way to get leverage on the massive costs involved is to make as many chips as possible; in the case of Microsoft, the best way to get leverage on software capability is to serve as many customers as possible. And, Nadella argues, there’s a second advantage: because software can increase the efficiency of underlying hardware, that leverage is itself leveraged by increasing the number of customers who can use the same unit of hardware.One interesting implication of this is that it is bullish for Nvidia, given that GPUs are more generalizable than ASICs and thus more able to be optimized by software; Wintel is dead; long live Microvidia!Amazon EarningsFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. said it’s bracing for a tougher business climate in the coming months, echoing concerns from a range of companies that tariffs and related economic turmoil could crimp consumer spending. When it reported results Thursday, the world’s largest online retailer posted a decent first quarter but said operating profit in the current period would be weaker than Wall Street anticipated. Amazon projected operating profit of $13 billion to $17.5 billion, compared with an average estimate of $17.8 billion. Sales will be $159 billion to $164 billion in the period ending in June, the company said in a statement. Analysts, on average, expected $161.4 billion.While Microsoft’s earnings call was all AI all the time, Amazon’searning callwas understandably primarily concerned with more pressing matters related to Amazon.com. I’m not going to get too much into tariffs and whatnot — we’ll all bracing right now to see what happens as ports start to dry up — but I thought this comment from CEO Andy Jassy’s prepared remarks about how Amazon is reshaping its inbound network was interesting:Over the past few years, we’ve made significant progress in making our fulfillment network more efficient and cost effective. We’ve shared many times that an important turning point was regionalizing our national fulfillment network into regional hubs. By stocking items closer to where customers live, we’re able to deliver more orders faster often in fewer packages and at lower delivery costs. The next challenge was getting as many items as possible into these regional nodes.Our inbound network which is how we get items to each fulfillment center hadn’t been architected to leverage this new regionalization structure. So, we redesigned it and just rolled out a new inbound architecture that expands the share of products that we can place in each fulfillment center improving delivery speeds and lowering our cost to serve. In the first quarter, we once again set new delivery speed records with our fastest delivery ever for Prime members around the world and we delivered more items in the same day or next day in Q1 than any other quarter in our history.The thought that occurred to me while reading this is how remarkable Amazon is at making capital expenditures: these changes cost a lot of money, but they both improve margins by reducing cost of fulfillment, and increase revenue because faster delivery drives more purchases. That, by extension, increases the leverage they get on their capital expenditure. This is Amazon’s core strength.It’s interesting, then, to see how this applies to the company’s approach to AI. First, while I mentioned that there was a lot less AI on Amazon’s call than Microsoft’s, it wasn’t just because of tariffs: Jassy’s prepared remarks about AWS emphasized how much non-AI enterprise IT spend still needed to move to the cloud; that happens to be the sort of workloads where Amazon’s deep investments in custom architecture are most beneficial.Perhaps it’s not a surprise, then, that Jassy’s AI discussion prominently featured Amazon’s custom architecture:At the bottom layer for those building models, our new custom AI chip Trainium 2 is starting to lay in capacity in larger quantities with significant appeal and demand. While we offer customers the ability to do AI in multiple chip providers and will for as long as I can proceed, customers doing AI at any significant scale realize that it can get expensive quickly. So, the 30% to 40% better price performance that Trainium 2 offers versus other GPU based instances is compelling. For AI to be as successful as we believe it can be, the price of inference needs to come down significantly. We consider this part of our mission and responsibility to help make it so.Notice the contrast with Microsoft. Both companies talked about AI efficiency, but Nadella was resolute that software was the answer; Jassy’s focus was on custom infrastructure, which is to say capital expenditures. In other words, while both companies are pursuing AI workloads, the means by which they hope to win in those markets ultimately comes back to what is their core capability.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 2025Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025The 2022 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateTuesday, December 20, 2022←Meta Earnings, Meta’s Deteriorating Ad Metrics, CapEx MetaAn Interview with SAP CEO Christian Klein About Enterprise AI→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Microsoft Earnings, Microsoft’s Core Capability, Amazon EarningsWednesday, May 7, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it yesterday, two scheduling announcements:This week’s Stratechery Interview will be published on Friday, not Thursday, so there will be no email tomorrow.I will be taking next Monday off as I will be traveling.If you haven’t been watching the NBA playoffs, you’re missing quite the spectacle; if you want to catch up there is no better podcast to do so thanGreatest of All Talk.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFromBloomberg:Microsoft Corp. shares jumped after the company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly sales and profit growth, suggesting customer demand for cloud services has held steady despite a wave of tariffs and economic turbulence. Total revenue in the fiscal third quarter increased 13% to $70.1 billion, while adjusted profit was $3.46 a share, the company said in a statement Wednesday. Analysts on average estimated sales of $68.5 billion and adjusted per-share earnings of $3.21.The world’s largest software maker is considered a leader in commercializing AI products, thanks to its close partnership with ChatGPT maker OpenAI. In addition to providing computing infrastructure, Microsoft has launched AI assistants in widely used productivity applications such as Office and Excel. The Azure cloud unit, which sells computing power and other services, posted a 33% revenue gain in the quarter, beating the Wall Street estimate of 29%. The company attributed 16 percentage points of Azure’s third-quarter growth to AI, compared with 13 points in the prior quarter and said a new cloud commitment from OpenAI helped drive bookings.The software titan saw its share price jump 7% in after-hours trading on Wednesday following its fiscal third quarter report. The report showed strong growth in revenue and earnings across all of the company’s business segments, with the closely watched Azure cloud service solidly beating Wall Street’s forecasts.Everyone is very excited about the big Azure beat, but CFO Amy Hood took care to be crystal clear onthe earnings callthat the AI numbers, to the extent they beat, were simply because a bit more capacity came on line earlier than expected; the actual beat was in plain old cloud computing. From Hood’s prepared remarks:Focused execution drove non-AI services results where we saw accelerated growth in our enterprise customer segment, as well as some improvement in our scale motions. And in Azure AI services, we brought capacity online faster than expected.Hood further clarified in response to a question:Just to provide some clarity because I think your question implies something that we didn’t mean to imply on the call. First, the real outperformance in Azure this quarter was in our non-AI business. So then to talk about the AI business, really, what was better was precisely what we said. We talked about this. We knew Q3 that we had and hadn’t really match supply and demand pretty carefully and didn’t expect to do much better than we had guided to on the AI side. We’ve been quite consistent on that.So the only real upside we saw on the AI side of the business was that we were able to deliver supply early to a number of customers. And being able to do that throughout the quarter creates quite a good benefit to us. But the majority of our outperformance versus where we had expected to be was on the non-AI piece of the business.This isn’t a bad thing, of course; Microsoft’s revenue outpaced its expense growth, including increased depreciation from its previous investments in AI. Cash flow did decrease year-over-year, but as long as Microsoft keeps meeting its expectations in terms of AI revenue increases, that will ultimately prove to be justified.To that end, Microsoft introduced a metric I hadn’t seen before: number of tokens processed. From Nadella’s prepared remarks:We processed over 100 trillion tokens this quarter, up 5x year-over-year, including a record 50 trillion tokens last month alone. And four months in over 10,000 organizations have used our new agent service to build, deploy and scale their agents.I hope Microsoft keeps reporting this number, and that everyone else making huge investments in AI follows.Microsoft’s Core CapabilityThere were two points CEO Satya Nadella made that I thought worth highlighting. The first was, in many respects, the capstone to the way in which he has transformed the company; this is what Nadella said in response to a question about AI growth versus Azure growth, and what connection there might be between them:And if I step back, and Amy and I talk a lot about this, this time around, there’s nothing certain for sure in the future, except for one thing, which is our largest business is our infrastructure business. And the good news here is the next big platform shift builds on that.So it’s not a complete rebuild, having gone through all these platform shifts where you have to come out on the other side with a full rebuild. If there is good news here is that we have a good business in Azure that continues to grow and the new platform depends on that. So we want to stay disciplined and execute super well on that.On one hand, this wasn’t as definitive an answer as the questioner — and I! — wanted; the biggest bull case for Microsoft is that its AI offerings are not only growing in their own right, but explicitly driving Azure growth. Nadella said there is a bit of that, but didn’t really commit to that being a core driver.On the other hand, what is notable about this statement is just how unremarkable it is to assert that Microsoft is an infrastructure company; I know I’ve said it before, butWindows is truly dead as a company driver. The Article that link points to is from 2018, so yes, this observation is old hat, but the reason it’s worth noting now is that it was that previous shift that prepared Microsoft to capitalize on AI.The obvious contrast is Microsoft’s long-time partner Intel; I wrote inApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past:Missing mobile was a big problem for Intel’s integrated device manufacturing model: the company, in the long run, would not have the volume and the associated financial support of mobile customers to keep up with TSMC. Today the company is struggling to turn itself into a foundry — a company that manufactures chips for external customers — and would like nothing more than to receive a contract from the likes of Apple, not for an Intel chip, but for an ARM-based one…This, in the end, was Intel’s ultimate failing: today there is massive demand for foundry capacity, but not for mobile; what the world wants is more AI chips, particularly from a company (Nvidia) which has regularly been willing to dual source its supply. Intel, though, has yet to meet the call; the cost of the company not opening itself up after its mobile miss is that it wasn’t prepared for the next opportunity that came along.Those two paragraphs don’t flow neatly because they are far apart in the Article, but they very much go together: if Intel had overhauled their business in response to mobile in the only way that was viable — becoming a foundry — they would be very well-placed today to build AI chips; they didn’t, so they aren’t. Microsoft, on the other hand, reacted to their mobile miss by de-prioritizing Windows and becoming a cloud provider (that mostly ran Linux, natch); that meant they were ready for the next major opportunity that came along, which was AI.The second comment was about the part of Microsoft that endures, which is that it is a software company. Nadella again:I mean I think at a macro level, I think the way to think about this is you can ask the question, what’s the difference between a hosting business and a hyperscale business. It’s software. That’s, I think, the gist of it. We asked for sure, it’s a capital-intensive business, but capital efficiency comes from that system-wide software optimization. And that’s what makes the hyperscale business attractive and that’s what we want to just keep executing super well on.Nadella added in response to a follow-up question:You know, the idea that you can have test time compute plus pre-training and then some of the great optimization at inference time that has all happened has proven up. I mean if you look at I would say, for every Moore’s Law change and movement there’s probably a 10x improvement because of software, right? That’s sort of what’s happening with these models.Some of it comes from model architecture, some of that comes from data efficiency, compute efficiency and what have you. So that’s what we are writing. And we feel that all up, when you have a commodity that is getting that better, then the question is how do you build out a fleet that’s super balanced. So that then the workloads can be built and can, in fact, take advantage of that efficiency and the underlying infrastructure.I mean it’s kind of like virtualization. What is the difference between servers and, sort of, again, client server with virtualization, it was efficiency. What is the difference between virtualization and cloud, it was efficiency. What is the difference between this generation of cloud and AI, it’s efficiency. So the more you can, kind of, continue to think about software driving that efficiency is what drives demand ultimately.To go back to the foundry analogy, the best way to get leverage on the massive costs involved is to make as many chips as possible; in the case of Microsoft, the best way to get leverage on software capability is to serve as many customers as possible. And, Nadella argues, there’s a second advantage: because software can increase the efficiency of underlying hardware, that leverage is itself leveraged by increasing the number of customers who can use the same unit of hardware.One interesting implication of this is that it is bullish for Nvidia, given that GPUs are more generalizable than ASICs and thus more able to be optimized by software; Wintel is dead; long live Microvidia!Amazon EarningsFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. said it’s bracing for a tougher business climate in the coming months, echoing concerns from a range of companies that tariffs and related economic turmoil could crimp consumer spending. When it reported results Thursday, the world’s largest online retailer posted a decent first quarter but said operating profit in the current period would be weaker than Wall Street anticipated. Amazon projected operating profit of $13 billion to $17.5 billion, compared with an average estimate of $17.8 billion. Sales will be $159 billion to $164 billion in the period ending in June, the company said in a statement. Analysts, on average, expected $161.4 billion.While Microsoft’s earnings call was all AI all the time, Amazon’searning callwas understandably primarily concerned with more pressing matters related to Amazon.com. I’m not going to get too much into tariffs and whatnot — we’ll all bracing right now to see what happens as ports start to dry up — but I thought this comment from CEO Andy Jassy’s prepared remarks about how Amazon is reshaping its inbound network was interesting:Over the past few years, we’ve made significant progress in making our fulfillment network more efficient and cost effective. We’ve shared many times that an important turning point was regionalizing our national fulfillment network into regional hubs. By stocking items closer to where customers live, we’re able to deliver more orders faster often in fewer packages and at lower delivery costs. The next challenge was getting as many items as possible into these regional nodes.Our inbound network which is how we get items to each fulfillment center hadn’t been architected to leverage this new regionalization structure. So, we redesigned it and just rolled out a new inbound architecture that expands the share of products that we can place in each fulfillment center improving delivery speeds and lowering our cost to serve. In the first quarter, we once again set new delivery speed records with our fastest delivery ever for Prime members around the world and we delivered more items in the same day or next day in Q1 than any other quarter in our history.The thought that occurred to me while reading this is how remarkable Amazon is at making capital expenditures: these changes cost a lot of money, but they both improve margins by reducing cost of fulfillment, and increase revenue because faster delivery drives more purchases. That, by extension, increases the leverage they get on their capital expenditure. This is Amazon’s core strength.It’s interesting, then, to see how this applies to the company’s approach to AI. First, while I mentioned that there was a lot less AI on Amazon’s call than Microsoft’s, it wasn’t just because of tariffs: Jassy’s prepared remarks about AWS emphasized how much non-AI enterprise IT spend still needed to move to the cloud; that happens to be the sort of workloads where Amazon’s deep investments in custom architecture are most beneficial.Perhaps it’s not a surprise, then, that Jassy’s AI discussion prominently featured Amazon’s custom architecture:At the bottom layer for those building models, our new custom AI chip Trainium 2 is starting to lay in capacity in larger quantities with significant appeal and demand. While we offer customers the ability to do AI in multiple chip providers and will for as long as I can proceed, customers doing AI at any significant scale realize that it can get expensive quickly. So, the 30% to 40% better price performance that Trainium 2 offers versus other GPU based instances is compelling. For AI to be as successful as we believe it can be, the price of inference needs to come down significantly. We consider this part of our mission and responsibility to help make it so.Notice the contrast with Microsoft. Both companies talked about AI efficiency, but Nadella was resolute that software was the answer; Jassy’s focus was on custom infrastructure, which is to say capital expenditures. In other words, while both companies are pursuing AI workloads, the means by which they hope to win in those markets ultimately comes back to what is their core capability.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.19: Platforms and Their PrivilegesDateSaturday, May 10, 2025Checking In on AI and the Big FiveDateMonday, June 23, 2025The 2022 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateTuesday, December 20, 2022←Meta Earnings, Meta’s Deteriorating Ad Metrics, CapEx MetaAn Interview with SAP CEO Christian Klein About Enterprise AI→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,In case you missed it yesterday, two scheduling announcements:This week’s Stratechery Interview will be published on Friday, not Thursday, so there will be no email tomorrow.I will be taking next Monday off as I will be traveling.If you haven’t been watching the NBA playoffs, you’re missing quite the spectacle; if you want to catch up there is no better podcast to do so thanGreatest of All Talk.On to the Update:Microsoft EarningsFromBloomberg:Microsoft Corp. shares jumped after the company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly sales and profit growth, suggesting customer demand for cloud services has held steady despite a wave of tariffs and economic turbulence. Total revenue in the fiscal third quarter increased 13% to $70.1 billion, while adjusted profit was $3.46 a share, the company said in a statement Wednesday. Analysts on average estimated sales of $68.5 billion and adjusted per-share earnings of $3.21.The world’s largest software maker is considered a leader in commercializing AI products, thanks to its close partnership with ChatGPT maker OpenAI. In addition to providing computing infrastructure, Microsoft has launched AI assistants in widely used productivity applications such as Office and Excel. The Azure cloud unit, which sells computing power and other services, posted a 33% revenue gain in the quarter, beating the Wall Street estimate of 29%. The company attributed 16 percentage points of Azure’s third-quarter growth to AI, compared with 13 points in the prior quarter and said a new cloud commitment from OpenAI helped drive bookings.The software titan saw its share price jump 7% in after-hours trading on Wednesday following its fiscal third quarter report. The report showed strong growth in revenue and earnings across all of the company’s business segments, with the closely watched Azure cloud service solidly beating Wall Street’s forecasts.Everyone is very excited about the big Azure beat, but CFO Amy Hood took care to be crystal clear onthe earnings callthat the AI numbers, to the extent they beat, were simply because a bit more capacity came on line earlier than expected; the actual beat was in plain old cloud computing. From Hood’s prepared remarks:Focused execution drove non-AI services results where we saw accelerated growth in our enterprise customer segment, as well as some improvement in our scale motions. And in Azure AI services, we brought capacity online faster than expected.Hood further clarified in response to a question:Just to provide some clarity because I think your question implies something that we didn’t mean to imply on the call. First, the real outperformance in Azure this quarter was in our non-AI business. So then to talk about the AI business, really, what was better was precisely what we said. We talked about this. We knew Q3 that we had and hadn’t really match supply and demand pretty carefully and didn’t expect to do much better than we had guided to on the AI side. We’ve been quite consistent on that.So the only real upside we saw on the AI side of the business was that we were able to deliver supply early to a number of customers. And being able to do that throughout the quarter creates quite a good benefit to us. But the majority of our outperformance versus where we had expected to be was on the non-AI piece of the business.This isn’t a bad thing, of course; Microsoft’s revenue outpaced its expense growth, including increased depreciation from its previous investments in AI. Cash flow did decrease year-over-year, but as long as Microsoft keeps meeting its expectations in terms of AI revenue increases, that will ultimately prove to be justified.To that end, Microsoft introduced a metric I hadn’t seen before: number of tokens processed. From Nadella’s prepared remarks:We processed over 100 trillion tokens this quarter, up 5x year-over-year, including a record 50 trillion tokens last month alone. And four months in over 10,000 organizations have used our new agent service to build, deploy and scale their agents.I hope Microsoft keeps reporting this number, and that everyone else making huge investments in AI follows.Microsoft’s Core CapabilityThere were two points CEO Satya Nadella made that I thought worth highlighting. The first was, in many respects, the capstone to the way in which he has transformed the company; this is what Nadella said in response to a question about AI growth versus Azure growth, and what connection there might be between them:And if I step back, and Amy and I talk a lot about this, this time around, there’s nothing certain for sure in the future, except for one thing, which is our largest business is our infrastructure business. And the good news here is the next big platform shift builds on that.So it’s not a complete rebuild, having gone through all these platform shifts where you have to come out on the other side with a full rebuild. If there is good news here is that we have a good business in Azure that continues to grow and the new platform depends on that. So we want to stay disciplined and execute super well on that.On one hand, this wasn’t as definitive an answer as the questioner — and I! — wanted; the biggest bull case for Microsoft is that its AI offerings are not only growing in their own right, but explicitly driving Azure growth. Nadella said there is a bit of that, but didn’t really commit to that being a core driver.On the other hand, what is notable about this statement is just how unremarkable it is to assert that Microsoft is an infrastructure company; I know I’ve said it before, butWindows is truly dead as a company driver. The Article that link points to is from 2018, so yes, this observation is old hat, but the reason it’s worth noting now is that it was that previous shift that prepared Microsoft to capitalize on AI.The obvious contrast is Microsoft’s long-time partner Intel; I wrote inApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past:Missing mobile was a big problem for Intel’s integrated device manufacturing model: the company, in the long run, would not have the volume and the associated financial support of mobile customers to keep up with TSMC. Today the company is struggling to turn itself into a foundry — a company that manufactures chips for external customers — and would like nothing more than to receive a contract from the likes of Apple, not for an Intel chip, but for an ARM-based one…This, in the end, was Intel’s ultimate failing: today there is massive demand for foundry capacity, but not for mobile; what the world wants is more AI chips, particularly from a company (Nvidia) which has regularly been willing to dual source its supply. Intel, though, has yet to meet the call; the cost of the company not opening itself up after its mobile miss is that it wasn’t prepared for the next opportunity that came along.Those two paragraphs don’t flow neatly because they are far apart in the Article, but they very much go together: if Intel had overhauled their business in response to mobile in the only way that was viable — becoming a foundry — they would be very well-placed today to build AI chips; they didn’t, so they aren’t. Microsoft, on the other hand, reacted to their mobile miss by de-prioritizing Windows and becoming a cloud provider (that mostly ran Linux, natch); that meant they were ready for the next major opportunity that came along, which was AI.The second comment was about the part of Microsoft that endures, which is that it is a software company. Nadella again:I mean I think at a macro level, I think the way to think about this is you can ask the question, what’s the difference between a hosting business and a hyperscale business. It’s software. That’s, I think, the gist of it. We asked for sure, it’s a capital-intensive business, but capital efficiency comes from that system-wide software optimization. And that’s what makes the hyperscale business attractive and that’s what we want to just keep executing super well on.Nadella added in response to a follow-up question:You know, the idea that you can have test time compute plus pre-training and then some of the great optimization at inference time that has all happened has proven up. I mean if you look at I would say, for every Moore’s Law change and movement there’s probably a 10x improvement because of software, right? That’s sort of what’s happening with these models.Some of it comes from model architecture, some of that comes from data efficiency, compute efficiency and what have you. So that’s what we are writing. And we feel that all up, when you have a commodity that is getting that better, then the question is how do you build out a fleet that’s super balanced. So that then the workloads can be built and can, in fact, take advantage of that efficiency and the underlying infrastructure.I mean it’s kind of like virtualization. What is the difference between servers and, sort of, again, client server with virtualization, it was efficiency. What is the difference between virtualization and cloud, it was efficiency. What is the difference between this generation of cloud and AI, it’s efficiency. So the more you can, kind of, continue to think about software driving that efficiency is what drives demand ultimately.To go back to the foundry analogy, the best way to get leverage on the massive costs involved is to make as many chips as possible; in the case of Microsoft, the best way to get leverage on software capability is to serve as many customers as possible. And, Nadella argues, there’s a second advantage: because software can increase the efficiency of underlying hardware, that leverage is itself leveraged by increasing the number of customers who can use the same unit of hardware.One interesting implication of this is that it is bullish for Nvidia, given that GPUs are more generalizable than ASICs and thus more able to be optimized by software; Wintel is dead; long live Microvidia!Amazon EarningsFromBloomberg:Amazon.com Inc. said it’s bracing for a tougher business climate in the coming months, echoing concerns from a range of companies that tariffs and related economic turmoil could crimp consumer spending. When it reported results Thursday, the world’s largest online retailer posted a decent first quarter but said operating profit in the current period would be weaker than Wall Street anticipated. Amazon projected operating profit of $13 billion to $17.5 billion, compared with an average estimate of $17.8 billion. Sales will be $159 billion to $164 billion in the period ending in June, the company said in a statement. Analysts, on average, expected $161.4 billion.While Microsoft’s earnings call was all AI all the time, Amazon’searning callwas understandably primarily concerned with more pressing matters related to Amazon.com. I’m not going to get too much into tariffs and whatnot — we’ll all bracing right now to see what happens as ports start to dry up — but I thought this comment from CEO Andy Jassy’s prepared remarks about how Amazon is reshaping its inbound network was interesting:Over the past few years, we’ve made significant progress in making our fulfillment network more efficient and cost effective. We’ve shared many times that an important turning point was regionalizing our national fulfillment network into regional hubs. By stocking items closer to where customers live, we’re able to deliver more orders faster often in fewer packages and at lower delivery costs. The next challenge was getting as many items as possible into these regional nodes.Our inbound network which is how we get items to each fulfillment center hadn’t been architected to leverage this new regionalization structure. So, we redesigned it and just rolled out a new inbound architecture that expands the share of products that we can place in each fulfillment center improving delivery speeds and lowering our cost to serve. In the first quarter, we once again set new delivery speed records with our fastest delivery ever for Prime members around the world and we delivered more items in the same day or next day in Q1 than any other quarter in our history.The thought that occurred to me while reading this is how remarkable Amazon is at making capital expenditures: these changes cost a lot of money, but they both improve margins by reducing cost of fulfillment, and increase revenue because faster delivery drives more purchases. That, by extension, increases the leverage they get on their capital expenditure. This is Amazon’s core strength.It’s interesting, then, to see how this applies to the company’s approach to AI. First, while I mentioned that there was a lot less AI on Amazon’s call than Microsoft’s, it wasn’t just because of tariffs: Jassy’s prepared remarks about AWS emphasized how much non-AI enterprise IT spend still needed to move to the cloud; that happens to be the sort of workloads where Amazon’s deep investments in custom architecture are most beneficial.Perhaps it’s not a surprise, then, that Jassy’s AI discussion prominently featured Amazon’s custom architecture:At the bottom layer for those building models, our new custom AI chip Trainium 2 is starting to lay in capacity in larger quantities with significant appeal and demand. While we offer customers the ability to do AI in multiple chip providers and will for as long as I can proceed, customers doing AI at any significant scale realize that it can get expensive quickly. So, the 30% to 40% better price performance that Trainium 2 offers versus other GPU based instances is compelling. For AI to be as successful as we believe it can be, the price of inference needs to come down significantly. We consider this part of our mission and responsibility to help make it so.Notice the contrast with Microsoft. Both companies talked about AI efficiency, but Nadella was resolute that software was the answer; Jassy’s focus was on custom infrastructure, which is to say capital expenditures. In other words, while both companies are pursuing AI workloads, the means by which they hope to win in those markets ultimately comes back to what is their core capability.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Microsoft Corp. shares jumped after the company reported stronger-than-expected quarterly sales and profit growth, suggesting customer demand for cloud services has held steady despite a wave of tariffs and economic turbulence. Total revenue in the fiscal third quarter increased 13% to $70.1 billion, while adjusted profit was $3.46 a share, the company said in a statement Wednesday. Analysts on average estimated sales of $68.5 billion and adjusted per-share earnings of $3.21. The world’s largest software maker is considered a leader in commercializing AI products, thanks to its close partnership with ChatGPT maker OpenAI. In addition to providing computing infrastructure, Microsoft has launched AI assistants in widely used productivity applications such as Office and Excel. The Azure cloud unit, which sells computing power and other services, posted a 33% revenue gain in the quarter, beating the Wall Street estimate of 29%. The company attributed 16 percentage points of Azure’s third-quarter growth to AI, compared with 13 points in the prior quarter and said a new cloud commitment from OpenAI helped drive bookings. The software titan saw its share price jump 7% in after-hours trading on Wednesday following its fiscal third quarter report. The report showed strong growth in revenue and earnings across all of the company’s business segments, with the closely watched Azure cloud service solidly beating Wall Street’s forecasts. Everyone is very excited about the big Azure beat, but CFO Amy Hood took care to be crystal clear onthe earnings callthat the AI numbers, to the extent they beat, were simply because a bit more capacity came on line earlier than expected; the actual beat was in plain old cloud computing. From Hood’s prepared remarks: Focused execution drove non-AI services results where we saw accelerated growth in our enterprise customer segment, as well as some improvement in our scale motions. And in Azure AI services, we brought capacity online faster than expected. Just to provide some clarity because I think your question implies something that we didn’t mean to imply on the call. First, the real outperformance in Azure this quarter was in our non-AI business. So then to talk about the AI business, really, what was better was precisely what we said. We talked about this. We knew Q3 that we had and hadn’t really match supply and demand pretty carefully and didn’t expect to do much better than we had guided to on the AI side. We’ve been quite consistent on that. So the only real upside we saw on the AI side of the business was that we were able to deliver supply early to a number of customers. And being able to do that throughout the quarter creates quite a good benefit to us. But the majority of our outperformance versus where we had expected to be was on the non-AI piece of the business. This isn’t a bad thing, of course; Microsoft’s revenue outpaced its expense growth, including increased depreciation from its previous investments in AI. Cash flow did decrease year-over-year, but as long as Microsoft keeps meeting its expectations in terms of AI revenue increases, that will ultimately prove to be justified. We processed over 100 trillion tokens this quarter, up 5x year-over-year, including a record 50 trillion tokens last month alone. And four months in over 10,000 organizations have used our new agent service to build, deploy and scale their agents. There were two points CEO Satya Nadella made that I thought worth highlighting. The first was, in many respects, the capstone to the way in which he has transformed the company; this is what Nadella said in response to a question about AI growth versus Azure growth, and what connection there might be between them: And if I step back, and Amy and I talk a lot about this, this time around, there’s nothing certain for sure in the future, except for one thing, which is our largest business is our infrastructure business. And the good news here is the next big platform shift builds on that. So it’s not a complete rebuild, having gone through all these platform shifts where you have to come out on the other side with a full rebuild. If there is good news here is that we have a good business in Azure that continues to grow and the new platform depends on that. So we want to stay disciplined and execute super well on that. On one hand, this wasn’t as definitive an answer as the questioner — and I! — wanted; the biggest bull case for Microsoft is that its AI offerings are not only growing in their own right, but explicitly driving Azure growth. Nadella said there is a bit of that, but didn’t really commit to that being a core driver. On the other hand, what is notable about this statement is just how unremarkable it is to assert that Microsoft is an infrastructure company; I know I’ve said it before, butWindows is truly dead as a company driver. The Article that link points to is from 2018, so yes, this observation is old hat, but the reason it’s worth noting now is that it was that previous shift that prepared Microsoft to capitalize on AI. Missing mobile was a big problem for Intel’s integrated device manufacturing model: the company, in the long run, would not have the volume and the associated financial support of mobile customers to keep up with TSMC. Today the company is struggling to turn itself into a foundry — a company that manufactures chips for external customers — and would like nothing more than to receive a contract from the likes of Apple, not for an Intel chip, but for an ARM-based one… This, in the end, was Intel’s ultimate failing: today there is massive demand for foundry capacity, but not for mobile; what the world wants is more AI chips, particularly from a company (Nvidia) which has regularly been willing to dual source its supply. Intel, though, has yet to meet the call; the cost of the company not opening itself up after its mobile miss is that it wasn’t prepared for the next opportunity that came along. Those two paragraphs don’t flow neatly because they are far apart in the Article, but they very much go together: if Intel had overhauled their business in response to mobile in the only way that was viable — becoming a foundry — they would be very well-placed today to build AI chips; they didn’t, so they aren’t. Microsoft, on the other hand, reacted to their mobile miss by de-prioritizing Windows and becoming a cloud provider (that mostly ran Linux, natch); that meant they were ready for the next major opportunity that came along, which was AI. I mean I think at a macro level, I think the way to think about this is you can ask the question, what’s the difference between a hosting business and a hyperscale business. It’s software. That’s, I think, the gist of it. We asked for sure, it’s a capital-intensive business, but capital efficiency comes from that system-wide software optimization. And that’s what makes the hyperscale business attractive and that’s what we want to just keep executing super well on. You know, the idea that you can have test time compute plus pre-training and then some of the great optimization at inference time that has all happened has proven up. I mean if you look at I would say, for every Moore’s Law change and movement there’s probably a 10x improvement because of software, right? That’s sort of what’s happening with these models. Some of it comes from model architecture, some of that comes from data efficiency, compute efficiency and what have you. So that’s what we are writing. And we feel that all up, when you have a commodity that is getting that better, then the question is how do you build out a fleet that’s super balanced. So that then the workloads can be built and can, in fact, take advantage of that efficiency and the underlying infrastructure. I mean it’s kind of like virtualization. What is the difference between servers and, sort of, again, client server with virtualization, it was efficiency. What is the difference between virtualization and cloud, it was efficiency. What is the difference between this generation of cloud and AI, it’s efficiency. So the more you can, kind of, continue to think about software driving that efficiency is what drives demand ultimately. To go back to the foundry analogy, the best way to get leverage on the massive costs involved is to make as many chips as possible; in the case of Microsoft, the best way to get leverage on software capability is to serve as many customers as possible. And, Nadella argues, there’s a second advantage: because software can increase the efficiency of underlying hardware, that leverage is itself leveraged by increasing the number of customers who can use the same unit of hardware. One interesting implication of this is that it is bullish for Nvidia, given that GPUs are more generalizable than ASICs and thus more able to be optimized by software; Wintel is dead; long live Microvidia! Amazon.com Inc. said it’s bracing for a tougher business climate in the coming months, echoing concerns from a range of companies that tariffs and related economic turmoil could crimp consumer spending. When it reported results Thursday, the world’s largest online retailer posted a decent first quarter but said operating profit in the current period would be weaker than Wall Street anticipated. Amazon projected operating profit of $13 billion to $17.5 billion, compared with an average estimate of $17.8 billion. Sales will be $159 billion to $164 billion in the period ending in June, the company said in a statement. Analysts, on average, expected $161.4 billion. While Microsoft’s earnings call was all AI all the time, Amazon’searning callwas understandably primarily concerned with more pressing matters related to Amazon.com. I’m not going to get too much into tariffs and whatnot — we’ll all bracing right now to see what happens as ports start to dry up — but I thought this comment from CEO Andy Jassy’s prepared remarks about how Amazon is reshaping its inbound network was interesting: Over the past few years, we’ve made significant progress in making our fulfillment network more efficient and cost effective. We’ve shared many times that an important turning point was regionalizing our national fulfillment network into regional hubs. By stocking items closer to where customers live, we’re able to deliver more orders faster often in fewer packages and at lower delivery costs. The next challenge was getting as many items as possible into these regional nodes. Our inbound network which is how we get items to each fulfillment center hadn’t been architected to leverage this new regionalization structure. So, we redesigned it and just rolled out a new inbound architecture that expands the share of products that we can place in each fulfillment center improving delivery speeds and lowering our cost to serve. In the first quarter, we once again set new delivery speed records with our fastest delivery ever for Prime members around the world and we delivered more items in the same day or next day in Q1 than any other quarter in our history. The thought that occurred to me while reading this is how remarkable Amazon is at making capital expenditures: these changes cost a lot of money, but they both improve margins by reducing cost of fulfillment, and increase revenue because faster delivery drives more purchases. That, by extension, increases the leverage they get on their capital expenditure. This is Amazon’s core strength. It’s interesting, then, to see how this applies to the company’s approach to AI. First, while I mentioned that there was a lot less AI on Amazon’s call than Microsoft’s, it wasn’t just because of tariffs: Jassy’s prepared remarks about AWS emphasized how much non-AI enterprise IT spend still needed to move to the cloud; that happens to be the sort of workloads where Amazon’s deep investments in custom architecture are most beneficial. At the bottom layer for those building models, our new custom AI chip Trainium 2 is starting to lay in capacity in larger quantities with significant appeal and demand. While we offer customers the ability to do AI in multiple chip providers and will for as long as I can proceed, customers doing AI at any significant scale realize that it can get expensive quickly. So, the 30% to 40% better price performance that Trainium 2 offers versus other GPU based instances is compelling. For AI to be as successful as we believe it can be, the price of inference needs to come down significantly. We consider this part of our mission and responsibility to help make it so. Notice the contrast with Microsoft. Both companies talked about AI efficiency, but Nadella was resolute that software was the answer; Jassy’s focus was on custom infrastructure, which is to say capital expenditures. In other words, while both companies are pursuing AI workloads, the means by which they hope to win in those markets ultimately comes back to what is their core capability. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025