# [PODCAST] Why Apple Deserves Special Scrutiny, Paramount Merges with Skydance

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/aggregators-platforms-and-regulatory-scrutiny-paramount-merges-with-skydance/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.mDjo1DDzeqM76-AphgTSWOaouhVWrbb8bFUNiTJTAOm-Xxw8MMNKj1iQzqmDLE3D5VK-2TqflNwKQ87EuTew7riKhD5wfX632-U8LuiI9gLv5uB1-5y1aIq4leA74EULz6CpbEyGb-ZyYgJ3k6_5_NcU7dwE0yUNXWBKFlYudsSg-YPcSkD1Ys7A-9bDV-z-MDJV4457RgAZNoPAUvqDemF0oj4p3C-tX8Dh4LJwtBiiupOTpafVpVs78AqFSH0kOeDoZM_UpQ_5dmTByzDdmPigNTixjiuihFQ_ATuDj-RM1N4ZGSQFCkqnwL5Yomw_7QCvuzHYeSEbwqPvQ6z6HA
**Atlas ID**: 229730
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.958572

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirWhy Apple Deserves Special Scrutiny, Paramount Merges with SkydanceTuesday, July 9, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, I decided to come back with a bang yesterday, arguing thatThe E.U. Goes Too Farin its recent approach to tech regulation (more on this in a bit). I do apologize that the Article came out so late: I had some major logistical challenges that are ultimately unimportant and my responsibility.On to the Update:Why Apple Deserves Special ScrutinyOne of the challenges of writing public Articles is that folks reading don’t have the context of the various Articles and Updates I have written over the last decade; specifically, I was very early to criticizing Apple for its approach to the App Store — as inthe very first few weeks of Stratechery— and I have continued those complaints (and sharpened them) over time. I still look back with amusement at a 2015 Felix Salmon post about Stratechery calledThe Ingredients of a Great Newsletter, wherein he annotated a post that included a bit about the App Store, declaring that it was important for a newsletter to have some sort of geeky obsession that wasn’t that important but that the author really cared about (the annotation is unfortunately lost to time; you’ll have to take my word for it). In short, I have cared about the App Store — and have been largely critical — since long before it was cool. To that end, I’m not surprised, but still frustrated, that I have seen a fair bit of feedback to yesterday’s post interpreting it as a full-throated defense of Apple’s approach to the App Store.In fact, the post wasn’t about the App Store at all (indeed, to the extent I discussed specific App Store policies, I defended the E.U.’s attack on Apple’s anti-steering provision); the reason the post was so long is that I wanted to document what I see as a worrying pattern to E.U. regulation of big tech: there has been a shift from proscribing actions to compelling them, and I object to that in principle. And, I would add, even there the line is fuzzy: it’s one thing to insist on, say, a browser choice screen; that is compelling action on the part of a company, but it’s ultimately fairly harmless. Demanding that Meta offer its services with a business model of the E.U.’s choosing, though, absolutely goes too far, and I would say the same thing about the Google Shopping case and a potential case against Nvidia’s integration.I must admit, though, that the App Store is the most difficult example of the four. On one hand, as I noted yesterday, the European Commission does seem on the verge of compelling Apple to make its intellectual property available to developers for free on an ongoing basis; that fits into the overall pattern of compelling a company to do something they don’t want to do, which I view as a different category than proscribing them from doing something viewed as harmful or undesirable. On the other hand, I am receptive to arguments that platforms are different; indeed, that is another argument I have been making for years. FromA Framework for Regulating Competition on the Internet:That certain companies have advantages or earn sustainable profits is not a sufficient reason for regulators to act; innovation deserves its reward. Moreover, the presence of abuses like those detailed above is also not necessarily a sufficient reason for regulators to act: regulation can have a chilling effect on innovation, it can be ineffective, and it can incur significant opportunity costs on both companies and regulators. Regulators should focus their attention and resources on abuses for which there is no other recourse than regulation.This is where the distinction between platforms and Aggregators is critical. Platforms are the most powerful economic and innovation engines in technology: they create the possibility for products that never existed previously, and are the foundation for huge amounts of innovation. It is in the interest of society that there be more and larger platforms, not fewer and smaller.At the same time, the danger of platform abuse is significantly greater, because users and 3rd-party developers have no other alternative. That means that not only are anticompetitive actions unfair to products that already exist, they also foreclose the creation of an untold number of new products. To that end, regulators should simultaneously encourage the formation of new platforms while ensuring those platforms do not abuse their position.From a practical standpoint, this means that platforms should have significant latitude in mergers and acquisitions, but significant scrutiny in terms of vertical foreclosure, rent-seeking, bundling, and self-dealing. Apple is the pre-eminent example here: the iPhone specifically and the entire iPhone ecosystem generally has benefitted tremendously not only from Apple’s internally-created innovations but also from acquisitions like P.A. Semi, which led to the creation of Apple’s A-series of chips. However, the combination of Apple’s total control over 3rd-party app installation and rent-seeking on in-app payments has, in my estimation, stunted innovation and opportunity in the app ecosystem.Aggregators are different. Yes, they provide value to end users and to third-parties, at least for a time, but the incentives are warped from the beginning: 3rd-parties are not actually incentivized to serve users well, but rather to make the Aggregator happy. The implication from a societal perspective is that the economic impact of an Aggregator is much more self-contained than a platform, which means there is correspondingly less of a concern about limiting Aggregator growth.For the same reason, though, Aggregators are less of a problem. Third parties can — and should! — go around Aggregators to connect to consumers directly; the presence of an Aggregator is just as likely to spur innovation on the part of a third party in an attempt to attract consumers without having to pay an Aggregator for access. Moreover, there is a Sisyphean aspect to regulating power predicated on consumer choice: look no further than the European Union, where regulators are frustrated that remedies for the Google shopping case aren’t working, even though those same regulators were happy with the remedies in theory; the problem was trying to regulate consumer choice in the first place.It follows, then, that regulatory priorities should be the opposite of platforms: given that Aggregator power comes from controlling demand, regulators should look at the acquisition of other potential Aggregators with extreme skepticism. At the same time, whatever an Aggregator chooses to do on its own site or app is less important, because users and third parties can always go elsewhere, and if they don’t, that is because they are satisfied.Forgive the long excerpt, but I think this distinction is absolutely crucial generally, and very pertinent to what I wrote yesterday specifically: Google and Meta are Aggregators, and I correspondingly find the European Commission’s cases against them to be the most problematic; Apple and Nvidia are platforms, and so they deserve more regulatory scrutiny. And, of the two, Apple is the biggest problem — and this is an addition to what I wrote in the piece I just excerpted — because Apple, at least in the context of the App Store,is also an Aggregator. They control demand for apps and thus can dictate terms to their suppliers (developers), but at the same time, because they are a platform, they can also foreclose a direct connection for developers to end users.Think about this distinction like a series of Supreme Court tests:Test 1:Is the regulation about a platform? If no, the regulation deserves very strict scrutiny and the assumption that it is a bad idea. If yes, proceed.Test 2:Is the platform being regulated an Aggregator, or have Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Nvidia). If yes, proceed.Test 3:Is the platform leveraging its technical lock-in capabilities to prevent an escape from Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Apple and the App Store generally, and because the widespread benefits of platforms for consumers). If yes…“If yes” is where it gets tricky: in yesterday’s Article I ultimately argued that the European Commission shouldn’t be compelling Apple to give away its intellectual property, but for me it’s really close; I could very easily make the argument that platforms of the scale of the iPhone are so important to the economy generally that, in the case of a total elimination of alternative means of distribution — and remember, Apple goes so far as to actually limit what developers cansayin their apps — it is actually legitimate to compel open and free access to said platform.Notice, though, that I used two adjectives there: the DMA compelsopenaccess to iOS, within certain parameters involving security; the dispute here is about whether or not that open access should actually befree. That, ultimately, is where I have drawn the line, but I totally understand folks that think that the E.U. is in the right here (but come on, you have to agree that the Meta case is absurd!).Paramount Merges with SkydanceFrom theWall Street Journal:Paramount Global agreed to merge with David Ellison’s Skydance Media in a complicated deal that ends the Redstone family’s involvement with the Hollywood company. Shari Redstone is selling her family’s controlling stake in Paramount Global and merging the entertainment giant with Skydance Media, drawing to a close a nearly four-decade run by her and her father as entertainment power players. Skydance and its investors have agreed to spend more than $8 billion to acquire National Amusements, the family company that controls Paramount, and invest in the new iteration of the iconic company. The deal gives the beleaguered entertainment company an injection of cash at a time when the traditional media landscape is in decline.The deal is a bit complicated: Skydance is buying National Amusements, the Redstone holding company which holds controlling shares in Paramount, and then compelling Paramount to acquire Skydance and put Skydance management in charge; one of the hangups in the deal getting over the finish line was Redstone’s push for more indemnification from shareholder lawsuits objecting to the terms. There is also a 45-day “go-shop period” where other potential acquirers can make a bid for Paramount, which includes several cable channels, the CBS broadcasting network, and the Paramount studio.In my opinon, that 45-day “go-shop period” highlights the most important takeaway of this deal. On one hand, it has the fig leaf of being shareholder friendly — Redstone is carving out time to make sure she gets the best deal! In fact, though, I think it’s the opposite; note the specific dates: 45 days from yesterday is August 5th, exactly two months before the 2024 Presidential election. The reason this matters is that most people assume that a Trump election (re-election?) will mean a dramatic relaxation in scrutiny for mergers and acquisitions; that is particularly important for Paramount because the most obvious alternative acquirers for Paramount are other media companies, which is to say that under the Biden administration most alternative acquirers are probably on the sidelines (yes, Biden is down in the polls, but no one wants to risk an antitrust fight).In short, I don’t think this is a shareholder-friendly provision at all; what I think is that Redstone wants/needs to sell, because Paramount has slashed her dividend to service its debt, but given that Paramount was her father’s life’s work she wants to make sure it stays independent, and Skydance is the best option in that regard. After all, Skydance itself is a bit of a rich man’s passion project, given that David Ellison is the son of Oracle founder Larry Ellison, the primary investor in the deal.Notice that none of this has anything to do with the actual business at hand.I agree with Peter Kafkathat David Ellison’s pitch about transforming Paramount into a “World Class Media and Technology Enterprise” is a ridiculous justification:As Kafka writes:The real problem that Paramount — and just about every other big media company — has these days isn’t that its tech isn’t good enough. It’s that its scale isn’t big enough. That’s why you constantly hear about media companies — including Paramount — as potential M&A targets: Investors believe they can’t take on Netflix and YouTube on their own. That’s also why you constantly hear about streamers trying to bundle themselves together — something both Ellison and Paramount’s previous managers have been openly talking up as well.So, techifying Paramount’s streaming operations sounds … fine — if Ellison and crew can really do a better job than Paramount’s old guard. But it won’t be adequate.What I come back to is the biggest lesson I have learned about the media over a decade of writing about the industry; frommy interview with Matthew Belloni:It’s easy to go back in 2010 and say, “I’m King of Hollywood and this is the way things should go”, but is the reality, and this has been as I’ve looked at my coverage of media in Hollywood, which I think I’ve had some good calls, but there’s ones not as good, such that I think my hit rate is not as high as it is in tech, and I feel like from my perspective, a mistake that I’ve made is I have a thesis or a way of looking at the world that I always talk about, which is people instinctually look at companies that do things they disagree with, and the implicit assumptions is the people in the company are stupid. By and large, actually they’re not stupid. What’s interesting is understanding, “Why do they do stupid things?”, that’s where a lot of the insight comes.But there is an extent where I feel like when I looked at Hollywood, it’s not that I over-applied this thesis, but rather I underestimated the personal dynamics of just understanding the people and understanding why they couldn’t get along. It wasn’t always about the economics, it wasn’t always about the business model. Unlike tech where these companies are coming up, they’re building up from startups, these are entities that have existed for a very long time.MB:100 years with some of them.They’re super high status, they’re super prestigious. They attract a person that is attracted to that for certain things, and that is a factor in these getting-along bits that I did not understand sufficiently, did not give enough credit to.I continue to think that Paramount+ is a terrible idea that will continue to burn cash both directly (in terms of operating the service and acquiring customers) and indirectly (by virtue of under-paying for content that could more profitably be sold elsewhere). If Paramount wants to be independent it should focus on making and selling content; if it wants to be in the streaming business it needs to be merged with someone else (ideally Warner Bros. Discovery if the debt could be managed, given that WBD could really use a broadcast network). I also think that none of these considerations matter: Redstone wants to exit on her terms, which include considerations beyond the financial, and David Ellison wants to expand his Hollywood empire. That’s the analysis that matters, andthe aforementioned Belloni agrees:This isn’t quite a Jeff Bezos buying the Washington Post charity mission, but the Ellisons were certainly motivated buyers. David wanted this; Shari wanted someone who would keep her dad’s legacy relatively intact; David’s father, as the 10th-richest person in the world and pushing 80 years old, is in the position to buy this company for his son; so… deal done. For a transaction so financially complex, it’s not that complicated.What is complicated is the long-run bullcase for Netflix in particular: this deal is a reminder that it will take longer than you might think for Hollywood to settle into an economically rational structure, which is likely to take the form of significant consolidation and studios selling (most) content to Netflix as the industry Aggregator. However, this isn’t SaaS or enterprise hardware sales, or unsexy industry of your choice; it’s the sexiest industry of all time, and that both means a higher likelihood of stupid decisions (like the pell-mell rush into streaming a la Paramount+) and a painfully long wait for economically rational ones.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedA Framework for Regulating Competition on the InternetDateMonday, December 9, 2019The 2019 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateWednesday, December 18, 2019Why Apple Is Buying BeatsDateMonday, May 12, 2014←The E.U. Goes Too FarApple and the OpenAI Board, Microsoft and the OpenAI Board→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Why Apple Deserves Special Scrutiny, Paramount Merges with SkydanceTuesday, July 9, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, I decided to come back with a bang yesterday, arguing thatThe E.U. Goes Too Farin its recent approach to tech regulation (more on this in a bit). I do apologize that the Article came out so late: I had some major logistical challenges that are ultimately unimportant and my responsibility.On to the Update:Why Apple Deserves Special ScrutinyOne of the challenges of writing public Articles is that folks reading don’t have the context of the various Articles and Updates I have written over the last decade; specifically, I was very early to criticizing Apple for its approach to the App Store — as inthe very first few weeks of Stratechery— and I have continued those complaints (and sharpened them) over time. I still look back with amusement at a 2015 Felix Salmon post about Stratechery calledThe Ingredients of a Great Newsletter, wherein he annotated a post that included a bit about the App Store, declaring that it was important for a newsletter to have some sort of geeky obsession that wasn’t that important but that the author really cared about (the annotation is unfortunately lost to time; you’ll have to take my word for it). In short, I have cared about the App Store — and have been largely critical — since long before it was cool. To that end, I’m not surprised, but still frustrated, that I have seen a fair bit of feedback to yesterday’s post interpreting it as a full-throated defense of Apple’s approach to the App Store.In fact, the post wasn’t about the App Store at all (indeed, to the extent I discussed specific App Store policies, I defended the E.U.’s attack on Apple’s anti-steering provision); the reason the post was so long is that I wanted to document what I see as a worrying pattern to E.U. regulation of big tech: there has been a shift from proscribing actions to compelling them, and I object to that in principle. And, I would add, even there the line is fuzzy: it’s one thing to insist on, say, a browser choice screen; that is compelling action on the part of a company, but it’s ultimately fairly harmless. Demanding that Meta offer its services with a business model of the E.U.’s choosing, though, absolutely goes too far, and I would say the same thing about the Google Shopping case and a potential case against Nvidia’s integration.I must admit, though, that the App Store is the most difficult example of the four. On one hand, as I noted yesterday, the European Commission does seem on the verge of compelling Apple to make its intellectual property available to developers for free on an ongoing basis; that fits into the overall pattern of compelling a company to do something they don’t want to do, which I view as a different category than proscribing them from doing something viewed as harmful or undesirable. On the other hand, I am receptive to arguments that platforms are different; indeed, that is another argument I have been making for years. FromA Framework for Regulating Competition on the Internet:That certain companies have advantages or earn sustainable profits is not a sufficient reason for regulators to act; innovation deserves its reward. Moreover, the presence of abuses like those detailed above is also not necessarily a sufficient reason for regulators to act: regulation can have a chilling effect on innovation, it can be ineffective, and it can incur significant opportunity costs on both companies and regulators. Regulators should focus their attention and resources on abuses for which there is no other recourse than regulation.This is where the distinction between platforms and Aggregators is critical. Platforms are the most powerful economic and innovation engines in technology: they create the possibility for products that never existed previously, and are the foundation for huge amounts of innovation. It is in the interest of society that there be more and larger platforms, not fewer and smaller.At the same time, the danger of platform abuse is significantly greater, because users and 3rd-party developers have no other alternative. That means that not only are anticompetitive actions unfair to products that already exist, they also foreclose the creation of an untold number of new products. To that end, regulators should simultaneously encourage the formation of new platforms while ensuring those platforms do not abuse their position.From a practical standpoint, this means that platforms should have significant latitude in mergers and acquisitions, but significant scrutiny in terms of vertical foreclosure, rent-seeking, bundling, and self-dealing. Apple is the pre-eminent example here: the iPhone specifically and the entire iPhone ecosystem generally has benefitted tremendously not only from Apple’s internally-created innovations but also from acquisitions like P.A. Semi, which led to the creation of Apple’s A-series of chips. However, the combination of Apple’s total control over 3rd-party app installation and rent-seeking on in-app payments has, in my estimation, stunted innovation and opportunity in the app ecosystem.Aggregators are different. Yes, they provide value to end users and to third-parties, at least for a time, but the incentives are warped from the beginning: 3rd-parties are not actually incentivized to serve users well, but rather to make the Aggregator happy. The implication from a societal perspective is that the economic impact of an Aggregator is much more self-contained than a platform, which means there is correspondingly less of a concern about limiting Aggregator growth.For the same reason, though, Aggregators are less of a problem. Third parties can — and should! — go around Aggregators to connect to consumers directly; the presence of an Aggregator is just as likely to spur innovation on the part of a third party in an attempt to attract consumers without having to pay an Aggregator for access. Moreover, there is a Sisyphean aspect to regulating power predicated on consumer choice: look no further than the European Union, where regulators are frustrated that remedies for the Google shopping case aren’t working, even though those same regulators were happy with the remedies in theory; the problem was trying to regulate consumer choice in the first place.It follows, then, that regulatory priorities should be the opposite of platforms: given that Aggregator power comes from controlling demand, regulators should look at the acquisition of other potential Aggregators with extreme skepticism. At the same time, whatever an Aggregator chooses to do on its own site or app is less important, because users and third parties can always go elsewhere, and if they don’t, that is because they are satisfied.Forgive the long excerpt, but I think this distinction is absolutely crucial generally, and very pertinent to what I wrote yesterday specifically: Google and Meta are Aggregators, and I correspondingly find the European Commission’s cases against them to be the most problematic; Apple and Nvidia are platforms, and so they deserve more regulatory scrutiny. And, of the two, Apple is the biggest problem — and this is an addition to what I wrote in the piece I just excerpted — because Apple, at least in the context of the App Store,is also an Aggregator. They control demand for apps and thus can dictate terms to their suppliers (developers), but at the same time, because they are a platform, they can also foreclose a direct connection for developers to end users.Think about this distinction like a series of Supreme Court tests:Test 1:Is the regulation about a platform? If no, the regulation deserves very strict scrutiny and the assumption that it is a bad idea. If yes, proceed.Test 2:Is the platform being regulated an Aggregator, or have Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Nvidia). If yes, proceed.Test 3:Is the platform leveraging its technical lock-in capabilities to prevent an escape from Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Apple and the App Store generally, and because the widespread benefits of platforms for consumers). If yes…“If yes” is where it gets tricky: in yesterday’s Article I ultimately argued that the European Commission shouldn’t be compelling Apple to give away its intellectual property, but for me it’s really close; I could very easily make the argument that platforms of the scale of the iPhone are so important to the economy generally that, in the case of a total elimination of alternative means of distribution — and remember, Apple goes so far as to actually limit what developers cansayin their apps — it is actually legitimate to compel open and free access to said platform.Notice, though, that I used two adjectives there: the DMA compelsopenaccess to iOS, within certain parameters involving security; the dispute here is about whether or not that open access should actually befree. That, ultimately, is where I have drawn the line, but I totally understand folks that think that the E.U. is in the right here (but come on, you have to agree that the Meta case is absurd!).Paramount Merges with SkydanceFrom theWall Street Journal:Paramount Global agreed to merge with David Ellison’s Skydance Media in a complicated deal that ends the Redstone family’s involvement with the Hollywood company. Shari Redstone is selling her family’s controlling stake in Paramount Global and merging the entertainment giant with Skydance Media, drawing to a close a nearly four-decade run by her and her father as entertainment power players. Skydance and its investors have agreed to spend more than $8 billion to acquire National Amusements, the family company that controls Paramount, and invest in the new iteration of the iconic company. The deal gives the beleaguered entertainment company an injection of cash at a time when the traditional media landscape is in decline.The deal is a bit complicated: Skydance is buying National Amusements, the Redstone holding company which holds controlling shares in Paramount, and then compelling Paramount to acquire Skydance and put Skydance management in charge; one of the hangups in the deal getting over the finish line was Redstone’s push for more indemnification from shareholder lawsuits objecting to the terms. There is also a 45-day “go-shop period” where other potential acquirers can make a bid for Paramount, which includes several cable channels, the CBS broadcasting network, and the Paramount studio.In my opinon, that 45-day “go-shop period” highlights the most important takeaway of this deal. On one hand, it has the fig leaf of being shareholder friendly — Redstone is carving out time to make sure she gets the best deal! In fact, though, I think it’s the opposite; note the specific dates: 45 days from yesterday is August 5th, exactly two months before the 2024 Presidential election. The reason this matters is that most people assume that a Trump election (re-election?) will mean a dramatic relaxation in scrutiny for mergers and acquisitions; that is particularly important for Paramount because the most obvious alternative acquirers for Paramount are other media companies, which is to say that under the Biden administration most alternative acquirers are probably on the sidelines (yes, Biden is down in the polls, but no one wants to risk an antitrust fight).In short, I don’t think this is a shareholder-friendly provision at all; what I think is that Redstone wants/needs to sell, because Paramount has slashed her dividend to service its debt, but given that Paramount was her father’s life’s work she wants to make sure it stays independent, and Skydance is the best option in that regard. After all, Skydance itself is a bit of a rich man’s passion project, given that David Ellison is the son of Oracle founder Larry Ellison, the primary investor in the deal.Notice that none of this has anything to do with the actual business at hand.I agree with Peter Kafkathat David Ellison’s pitch about transforming Paramount into a “World Class Media and Technology Enterprise” is a ridiculous justification:As Kafka writes:The real problem that Paramount — and just about every other big media company — has these days isn’t that its tech isn’t good enough. It’s that its scale isn’t big enough. That’s why you constantly hear about media companies — including Paramount — as potential M&A targets: Investors believe they can’t take on Netflix and YouTube on their own. That’s also why you constantly hear about streamers trying to bundle themselves together — something both Ellison and Paramount’s previous managers have been openly talking up as well.So, techifying Paramount’s streaming operations sounds … fine — if Ellison and crew can really do a better job than Paramount’s old guard. But it won’t be adequate.What I come back to is the biggest lesson I have learned about the media over a decade of writing about the industry; frommy interview with Matthew Belloni:It’s easy to go back in 2010 and say, “I’m King of Hollywood and this is the way things should go”, but is the reality, and this has been as I’ve looked at my coverage of media in Hollywood, which I think I’ve had some good calls, but there’s ones not as good, such that I think my hit rate is not as high as it is in tech, and I feel like from my perspective, a mistake that I’ve made is I have a thesis or a way of looking at the world that I always talk about, which is people instinctually look at companies that do things they disagree with, and the implicit assumptions is the people in the company are stupid. By and large, actually they’re not stupid. What’s interesting is understanding, “Why do they do stupid things?”, that’s where a lot of the insight comes.But there is an extent where I feel like when I looked at Hollywood, it’s not that I over-applied this thesis, but rather I underestimated the personal dynamics of just understanding the people and understanding why they couldn’t get along. It wasn’t always about the economics, it wasn’t always about the business model. Unlike tech where these companies are coming up, they’re building up from startups, these are entities that have existed for a very long time.MB:100 years with some of them.They’re super high status, they’re super prestigious. They attract a person that is attracted to that for certain things, and that is a factor in these getting-along bits that I did not understand sufficiently, did not give enough credit to.I continue to think that Paramount+ is a terrible idea that will continue to burn cash both directly (in terms of operating the service and acquiring customers) and indirectly (by virtue of under-paying for content that could more profitably be sold elsewhere). If Paramount wants to be independent it should focus on making and selling content; if it wants to be in the streaming business it needs to be merged with someone else (ideally Warner Bros. Discovery if the debt could be managed, given that WBD could really use a broadcast network). I also think that none of these considerations matter: Redstone wants to exit on her terms, which include considerations beyond the financial, and David Ellison wants to expand his Hollywood empire. That’s the analysis that matters, andthe aforementioned Belloni agrees:This isn’t quite a Jeff Bezos buying the Washington Post charity mission, but the Ellisons were certainly motivated buyers. David wanted this; Shari wanted someone who would keep her dad’s legacy relatively intact; David’s father, as the 10th-richest person in the world and pushing 80 years old, is in the position to buy this company for his son; so… deal done. For a transaction so financially complex, it’s not that complicated.What is complicated is the long-run bullcase for Netflix in particular: this deal is a reminder that it will take longer than you might think for Hollywood to settle into an economically rational structure, which is likely to take the form of significant consolidation and studios selling (most) content to Netflix as the industry Aggregator. However, this isn’t SaaS or enterprise hardware sales, or unsexy industry of your choice; it’s the sexiest industry of all time, and that both means a higher likelihood of stupid decisions (like the pell-mell rush into streaming a la Paramount+) and a painfully long wait for economically rational ones.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedA Framework for Regulating Competition on the InternetDateMonday, December 9, 2019The 2019 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateWednesday, December 18, 2019Why Apple Is Buying BeatsDateMonday, May 12, 2014←The E.U. Goes Too FarApple and the OpenAI Board, Microsoft and the OpenAI Board→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Why Apple Deserves Special Scrutiny, Paramount Merges with SkydanceTuesday, July 9, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, I decided to come back with a bang yesterday, arguing thatThe E.U. Goes Too Farin its recent approach to tech regulation (more on this in a bit). I do apologize that the Article came out so late: I had some major logistical challenges that are ultimately unimportant and my responsibility.On to the Update:Why Apple Deserves Special ScrutinyOne of the challenges of writing public Articles is that folks reading don’t have the context of the various Articles and Updates I have written over the last decade; specifically, I was very early to criticizing Apple for its approach to the App Store — as inthe very first few weeks of Stratechery— and I have continued those complaints (and sharpened them) over time. I still look back with amusement at a 2015 Felix Salmon post about Stratechery calledThe Ingredients of a Great Newsletter, wherein he annotated a post that included a bit about the App Store, declaring that it was important for a newsletter to have some sort of geeky obsession that wasn’t that important but that the author really cared about (the annotation is unfortunately lost to time; you’ll have to take my word for it). In short, I have cared about the App Store — and have been largely critical — since long before it was cool. To that end, I’m not surprised, but still frustrated, that I have seen a fair bit of feedback to yesterday’s post interpreting it as a full-throated defense of Apple’s approach to the App Store.In fact, the post wasn’t about the App Store at all (indeed, to the extent I discussed specific App Store policies, I defended the E.U.’s attack on Apple’s anti-steering provision); the reason the post was so long is that I wanted to document what I see as a worrying pattern to E.U. regulation of big tech: there has been a shift from proscribing actions to compelling them, and I object to that in principle. And, I would add, even there the line is fuzzy: it’s one thing to insist on, say, a browser choice screen; that is compelling action on the part of a company, but it’s ultimately fairly harmless. Demanding that Meta offer its services with a business model of the E.U.’s choosing, though, absolutely goes too far, and I would say the same thing about the Google Shopping case and a potential case against Nvidia’s integration.I must admit, though, that the App Store is the most difficult example of the four. On one hand, as I noted yesterday, the European Commission does seem on the verge of compelling Apple to make its intellectual property available to developers for free on an ongoing basis; that fits into the overall pattern of compelling a company to do something they don’t want to do, which I view as a different category than proscribing them from doing something viewed as harmful or undesirable. On the other hand, I am receptive to arguments that platforms are different; indeed, that is another argument I have been making for years. FromA Framework for Regulating Competition on the Internet:That certain companies have advantages or earn sustainable profits is not a sufficient reason for regulators to act; innovation deserves its reward. Moreover, the presence of abuses like those detailed above is also not necessarily a sufficient reason for regulators to act: regulation can have a chilling effect on innovation, it can be ineffective, and it can incur significant opportunity costs on both companies and regulators. Regulators should focus their attention and resources on abuses for which there is no other recourse than regulation.This is where the distinction between platforms and Aggregators is critical. Platforms are the most powerful economic and innovation engines in technology: they create the possibility for products that never existed previously, and are the foundation for huge amounts of innovation. It is in the interest of society that there be more and larger platforms, not fewer and smaller.At the same time, the danger of platform abuse is significantly greater, because users and 3rd-party developers have no other alternative. That means that not only are anticompetitive actions unfair to products that already exist, they also foreclose the creation of an untold number of new products. To that end, regulators should simultaneously encourage the formation of new platforms while ensuring those platforms do not abuse their position.From a practical standpoint, this means that platforms should have significant latitude in mergers and acquisitions, but significant scrutiny in terms of vertical foreclosure, rent-seeking, bundling, and self-dealing. Apple is the pre-eminent example here: the iPhone specifically and the entire iPhone ecosystem generally has benefitted tremendously not only from Apple’s internally-created innovations but also from acquisitions like P.A. Semi, which led to the creation of Apple’s A-series of chips. However, the combination of Apple’s total control over 3rd-party app installation and rent-seeking on in-app payments has, in my estimation, stunted innovation and opportunity in the app ecosystem.Aggregators are different. Yes, they provide value to end users and to third-parties, at least for a time, but the incentives are warped from the beginning: 3rd-parties are not actually incentivized to serve users well, but rather to make the Aggregator happy. The implication from a societal perspective is that the economic impact of an Aggregator is much more self-contained than a platform, which means there is correspondingly less of a concern about limiting Aggregator growth.For the same reason, though, Aggregators are less of a problem. Third parties can — and should! — go around Aggregators to connect to consumers directly; the presence of an Aggregator is just as likely to spur innovation on the part of a third party in an attempt to attract consumers without having to pay an Aggregator for access. Moreover, there is a Sisyphean aspect to regulating power predicated on consumer choice: look no further than the European Union, where regulators are frustrated that remedies for the Google shopping case aren’t working, even though those same regulators were happy with the remedies in theory; the problem was trying to regulate consumer choice in the first place.It follows, then, that regulatory priorities should be the opposite of platforms: given that Aggregator power comes from controlling demand, regulators should look at the acquisition of other potential Aggregators with extreme skepticism. At the same time, whatever an Aggregator chooses to do on its own site or app is less important, because users and third parties can always go elsewhere, and if they don’t, that is because they are satisfied.Forgive the long excerpt, but I think this distinction is absolutely crucial generally, and very pertinent to what I wrote yesterday specifically: Google and Meta are Aggregators, and I correspondingly find the European Commission’s cases against them to be the most problematic; Apple and Nvidia are platforms, and so they deserve more regulatory scrutiny. And, of the two, Apple is the biggest problem — and this is an addition to what I wrote in the piece I just excerpted — because Apple, at least in the context of the App Store,is also an Aggregator. They control demand for apps and thus can dictate terms to their suppliers (developers), but at the same time, because they are a platform, they can also foreclose a direct connection for developers to end users.Think about this distinction like a series of Supreme Court tests:Test 1:Is the regulation about a platform? If no, the regulation deserves very strict scrutiny and the assumption that it is a bad idea. If yes, proceed.Test 2:Is the platform being regulated an Aggregator, or have Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Nvidia). If yes, proceed.Test 3:Is the platform leveraging its technical lock-in capabilities to prevent an escape from Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Apple and the App Store generally, and because the widespread benefits of platforms for consumers). If yes…“If yes” is where it gets tricky: in yesterday’s Article I ultimately argued that the European Commission shouldn’t be compelling Apple to give away its intellectual property, but for me it’s really close; I could very easily make the argument that platforms of the scale of the iPhone are so important to the economy generally that, in the case of a total elimination of alternative means of distribution — and remember, Apple goes so far as to actually limit what developers cansayin their apps — it is actually legitimate to compel open and free access to said platform.Notice, though, that I used two adjectives there: the DMA compelsopenaccess to iOS, within certain parameters involving security; the dispute here is about whether or not that open access should actually befree. That, ultimately, is where I have drawn the line, but I totally understand folks that think that the E.U. is in the right here (but come on, you have to agree that the Meta case is absurd!).Paramount Merges with SkydanceFrom theWall Street Journal:Paramount Global agreed to merge with David Ellison’s Skydance Media in a complicated deal that ends the Redstone family’s involvement with the Hollywood company. Shari Redstone is selling her family’s controlling stake in Paramount Global and merging the entertainment giant with Skydance Media, drawing to a close a nearly four-decade run by her and her father as entertainment power players. Skydance and its investors have agreed to spend more than $8 billion to acquire National Amusements, the family company that controls Paramount, and invest in the new iteration of the iconic company. The deal gives the beleaguered entertainment company an injection of cash at a time when the traditional media landscape is in decline.The deal is a bit complicated: Skydance is buying National Amusements, the Redstone holding company which holds controlling shares in Paramount, and then compelling Paramount to acquire Skydance and put Skydance management in charge; one of the hangups in the deal getting over the finish line was Redstone’s push for more indemnification from shareholder lawsuits objecting to the terms. There is also a 45-day “go-shop period” where other potential acquirers can make a bid for Paramount, which includes several cable channels, the CBS broadcasting network, and the Paramount studio.In my opinon, that 45-day “go-shop period” highlights the most important takeaway of this deal. On one hand, it has the fig leaf of being shareholder friendly — Redstone is carving out time to make sure she gets the best deal! In fact, though, I think it’s the opposite; note the specific dates: 45 days from yesterday is August 5th, exactly two months before the 2024 Presidential election. The reason this matters is that most people assume that a Trump election (re-election?) will mean a dramatic relaxation in scrutiny for mergers and acquisitions; that is particularly important for Paramount because the most obvious alternative acquirers for Paramount are other media companies, which is to say that under the Biden administration most alternative acquirers are probably on the sidelines (yes, Biden is down in the polls, but no one wants to risk an antitrust fight).In short, I don’t think this is a shareholder-friendly provision at all; what I think is that Redstone wants/needs to sell, because Paramount has slashed her dividend to service its debt, but given that Paramount was her father’s life’s work she wants to make sure it stays independent, and Skydance is the best option in that regard. After all, Skydance itself is a bit of a rich man’s passion project, given that David Ellison is the son of Oracle founder Larry Ellison, the primary investor in the deal.Notice that none of this has anything to do with the actual business at hand.I agree with Peter Kafkathat David Ellison’s pitch about transforming Paramount into a “World Class Media and Technology Enterprise” is a ridiculous justification:As Kafka writes:The real problem that Paramount — and just about every other big media company — has these days isn’t that its tech isn’t good enough. It’s that its scale isn’t big enough. That’s why you constantly hear about media companies — including Paramount — as potential M&A targets: Investors believe they can’t take on Netflix and YouTube on their own. That’s also why you constantly hear about streamers trying to bundle themselves together — something both Ellison and Paramount’s previous managers have been openly talking up as well.So, techifying Paramount’s streaming operations sounds … fine — if Ellison and crew can really do a better job than Paramount’s old guard. But it won’t be adequate.What I come back to is the biggest lesson I have learned about the media over a decade of writing about the industry; frommy interview with Matthew Belloni:It’s easy to go back in 2010 and say, “I’m King of Hollywood and this is the way things should go”, but is the reality, and this has been as I’ve looked at my coverage of media in Hollywood, which I think I’ve had some good calls, but there’s ones not as good, such that I think my hit rate is not as high as it is in tech, and I feel like from my perspective, a mistake that I’ve made is I have a thesis or a way of looking at the world that I always talk about, which is people instinctually look at companies that do things they disagree with, and the implicit assumptions is the people in the company are stupid. By and large, actually they’re not stupid. What’s interesting is understanding, “Why do they do stupid things?”, that’s where a lot of the insight comes.But there is an extent where I feel like when I looked at Hollywood, it’s not that I over-applied this thesis, but rather I underestimated the personal dynamics of just understanding the people and understanding why they couldn’t get along. It wasn’t always about the economics, it wasn’t always about the business model. Unlike tech where these companies are coming up, they’re building up from startups, these are entities that have existed for a very long time.MB:100 years with some of them.They’re super high status, they’re super prestigious. They attract a person that is attracted to that for certain things, and that is a factor in these getting-along bits that I did not understand sufficiently, did not give enough credit to.I continue to think that Paramount+ is a terrible idea that will continue to burn cash both directly (in terms of operating the service and acquiring customers) and indirectly (by virtue of under-paying for content that could more profitably be sold elsewhere). If Paramount wants to be independent it should focus on making and selling content; if it wants to be in the streaming business it needs to be merged with someone else (ideally Warner Bros. Discovery if the debt could be managed, given that WBD could really use a broadcast network). I also think that none of these considerations matter: Redstone wants to exit on her terms, which include considerations beyond the financial, and David Ellison wants to expand his Hollywood empire. That’s the analysis that matters, andthe aforementioned Belloni agrees:This isn’t quite a Jeff Bezos buying the Washington Post charity mission, but the Ellisons were certainly motivated buyers. David wanted this; Shari wanted someone who would keep her dad’s legacy relatively intact; David’s father, as the 10th-richest person in the world and pushing 80 years old, is in the position to buy this company for his son; so… deal done. For a transaction so financially complex, it’s not that complicated.What is complicated is the long-run bullcase for Netflix in particular: this deal is a reminder that it will take longer than you might think for Hollywood to settle into an economically rational structure, which is likely to take the form of significant consolidation and studios selling (most) content to Netflix as the industry Aggregator. However, this isn’t SaaS or enterprise hardware sales, or unsexy industry of your choice; it’s the sexiest industry of all time, and that both means a higher likelihood of stupid decisions (like the pell-mell rush into streaming a la Paramount+) and a painfully long wait for economically rational ones.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedA Framework for Regulating Competition on the InternetDateMonday, December 9, 2019The 2019 Stratechery Year in ReviewDateWednesday, December 18, 2019Why Apple Is Buying BeatsDateMonday, May 12, 2014←The E.U. Goes Too FarApple and the OpenAI Board, Microsoft and the OpenAI Board→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Well, I decided to come back with a bang yesterday, arguing thatThe E.U. Goes Too Farin its recent approach to tech regulation (more on this in a bit). I do apologize that the Article came out so late: I had some major logistical challenges that are ultimately unimportant and my responsibility.On to the Update:Why Apple Deserves Special ScrutinyOne of the challenges of writing public Articles is that folks reading don’t have the context of the various Articles and Updates I have written over the last decade; specifically, I was very early to criticizing Apple for its approach to the App Store — as inthe very first few weeks of Stratechery— and I have continued those complaints (and sharpened them) over time. I still look back with amusement at a 2015 Felix Salmon post about Stratechery calledThe Ingredients of a Great Newsletter, wherein he annotated a post that included a bit about the App Store, declaring that it was important for a newsletter to have some sort of geeky obsession that wasn’t that important but that the author really cared about (the annotation is unfortunately lost to time; you’ll have to take my word for it). In short, I have cared about the App Store — and have been largely critical — since long before it was cool. To that end, I’m not surprised, but still frustrated, that I have seen a fair bit of feedback to yesterday’s post interpreting it as a full-throated defense of Apple’s approach to the App Store.In fact, the post wasn’t about the App Store at all (indeed, to the extent I discussed specific App Store policies, I defended the E.U.’s attack on Apple’s anti-steering provision); the reason the post was so long is that I wanted to document what I see as a worrying pattern to E.U. regulation of big tech: there has been a shift from proscribing actions to compelling them, and I object to that in principle. And, I would add, even there the line is fuzzy: it’s one thing to insist on, say, a browser choice screen; that is compelling action on the part of a company, but it’s ultimately fairly harmless. Demanding that Meta offer its services with a business model of the E.U.’s choosing, though, absolutely goes too far, and I would say the same thing about the Google Shopping case and a potential case against Nvidia’s integration.I must admit, though, that the App Store is the most difficult example of the four. On one hand, as I noted yesterday, the European Commission does seem on the verge of compelling Apple to make its intellectual property available to developers for free on an ongoing basis; that fits into the overall pattern of compelling a company to do something they don’t want to do, which I view as a different category than proscribing them from doing something viewed as harmful or undesirable. On the other hand, I am receptive to arguments that platforms are different; indeed, that is another argument I have been making for years. FromA Framework for Regulating Competition on the Internet:That certain companies have advantages or earn sustainable profits is not a sufficient reason for regulators to act; innovation deserves its reward. Moreover, the presence of abuses like those detailed above is also not necessarily a sufficient reason for regulators to act: regulation can have a chilling effect on innovation, it can be ineffective, and it can incur significant opportunity costs on both companies and regulators. Regulators should focus their attention and resources on abuses for which there is no other recourse than regulation.This is where the distinction between platforms and Aggregators is critical. Platforms are the most powerful economic and innovation engines in technology: they create the possibility for products that never existed previously, and are the foundation for huge amounts of innovation. It is in the interest of society that there be more and larger platforms, not fewer and smaller.At the same time, the danger of platform abuse is significantly greater, because users and 3rd-party developers have no other alternative. That means that not only are anticompetitive actions unfair to products that already exist, they also foreclose the creation of an untold number of new products. To that end, regulators should simultaneously encourage the formation of new platforms while ensuring those platforms do not abuse their position.From a practical standpoint, this means that platforms should have significant latitude in mergers and acquisitions, but significant scrutiny in terms of vertical foreclosure, rent-seeking, bundling, and self-dealing. Apple is the pre-eminent example here: the iPhone specifically and the entire iPhone ecosystem generally has benefitted tremendously not only from Apple’s internally-created innovations but also from acquisitions like P.A. Semi, which led to the creation of Apple’s A-series of chips. However, the combination of Apple’s total control over 3rd-party app installation and rent-seeking on in-app payments has, in my estimation, stunted innovation and opportunity in the app ecosystem.Aggregators are different. Yes, they provide value to end users and to third-parties, at least for a time, but the incentives are warped from the beginning: 3rd-parties are not actually incentivized to serve users well, but rather to make the Aggregator happy. The implication from a societal perspective is that the economic impact of an Aggregator is much more self-contained than a platform, which means there is correspondingly less of a concern about limiting Aggregator growth.For the same reason, though, Aggregators are less of a problem. Third parties can — and should! — go around Aggregators to connect to consumers directly; the presence of an Aggregator is just as likely to spur innovation on the part of a third party in an attempt to attract consumers without having to pay an Aggregator for access. Moreover, there is a Sisyphean aspect to regulating power predicated on consumer choice: look no further than the European Union, where regulators are frustrated that remedies for the Google shopping case aren’t working, even though those same regulators were happy with the remedies in theory; the problem was trying to regulate consumer choice in the first place.It follows, then, that regulatory priorities should be the opposite of platforms: given that Aggregator power comes from controlling demand, regulators should look at the acquisition of other potential Aggregators with extreme skepticism. At the same time, whatever an Aggregator chooses to do on its own site or app is less important, because users and third parties can always go elsewhere, and if they don’t, that is because they are satisfied.Forgive the long excerpt, but I think this distinction is absolutely crucial generally, and very pertinent to what I wrote yesterday specifically: Google and Meta are Aggregators, and I correspondingly find the European Commission’s cases against them to be the most problematic; Apple and Nvidia are platforms, and so they deserve more regulatory scrutiny. And, of the two, Apple is the biggest problem — and this is an addition to what I wrote in the piece I just excerpted — because Apple, at least in the context of the App Store,is also an Aggregator. They control demand for apps and thus can dictate terms to their suppliers (developers), but at the same time, because they are a platform, they can also foreclose a direct connection for developers to end users.Think about this distinction like a series of Supreme Court tests:Test 1:Is the regulation about a platform? If no, the regulation deserves very strict scrutiny and the assumption that it is a bad idea. If yes, proceed.Test 2:Is the platform being regulated an Aggregator, or have Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Nvidia). If yes, proceed.Test 3:Is the platform leveraging its technical lock-in capabilities to prevent an escape from Aggregation effects? If no, the regulation deserves intermediate scrutiny, with a bias towards it being a bad idea (because you don’t want to disincentivize innovation, a la Apple and the App Store generally, and because the widespread benefits of platforms for consumers). If yes…“If yes” is where it gets tricky: in yesterday’s Article I ultimately argued that the European Commission shouldn’t be compelling Apple to give away its intellectual property, but for me it’s really close; I could very easily make the argument that platforms of the scale of the iPhone are so important to the economy generally that, in the case of a total elimination of alternative means of distribution — and remember, Apple goes so far as to actually limit what developers cansayin their apps — it is actually legitimate to compel open and free access to said platform.Notice, though, that I used two adjectives there: the DMA compelsopenaccess to iOS, within certain parameters involving security; the dispute here is about whether or not that open access should actually befree. That, ultimately, is where I have drawn the line, but I totally understand folks that think that the E.U. is in the right here (but come on, you have to agree that the Meta case is absurd!).Paramount Merges with SkydanceFrom theWall Street Journal:Paramount Global agreed to merge with David Ellison’s Skydance Media in a complicated deal that ends the Redstone family’s involvement with the Hollywood company. Shari Redstone is selling her family’s controlling stake in Paramount Global and merging the entertainment giant with Skydance Media, drawing to a close a nearly four-decade run by her and her father as entertainment power players. Skydance and its investors have agreed to spend more than $8 billion to acquire National Amusements, the family company that controls Paramount, and invest in the new iteration of the iconic company. The deal gives the beleaguered entertainment company an injection of cash at a time when the traditional media landscape is in decline.The deal is a bit complicated: Skydance is buying National Amusements, the Redstone holding company which holds controlling shares in Paramount, and then compelling Paramount to acquire Skydance and put Skydance management in charge; one of the hangups in the deal getting over the finish line was Redstone’s push for more indemnification from shareholder lawsuits objecting to the terms. There is also a 45-day “go-shop period” where other potential acquirers can make a bid for Paramount, which includes several cable channels, the CBS broadcasting network, and the Paramount studio.In my opinon, that 45-day “go-shop period” highlights the most important takeaway of this deal. On one hand, it has the fig leaf of being shareholder friendly — Redstone is carving out time to make sure she gets the best deal! In fact, though, I think it’s the opposite; note the specific dates: 45 days from yesterday is August 5th, exactly two months before the 2024 Presidential election. The reason this matters is that most people assume that a Trump election (re-election?) will mean a dramatic relaxation in scrutiny for mergers and acquisitions; that is particularly important for Paramount because the most obvious alternative acquirers for Paramount are other media companies, which is to say that under the Biden administration most alternative acquirers are probably on the sidelines (yes, Biden is down in the polls, but no one wants to risk an antitrust fight).In short, I don’t think this is a shareholder-friendly provision at all; what I think is that Redstone wants/needs to sell, because Paramount has slashed her dividend to service its debt, but given that Paramount was her father’s life’s work she wants to make sure it stays independent, and Skydance is the best option in that regard. After all, Skydance itself is a bit of a rich man’s passion project, given that David Ellison is the son of Oracle founder Larry Ellison, the primary investor in the deal.Notice that none of this has anything to do with the actual business at hand.I agree with Peter Kafkathat David Ellison’s pitch about transforming Paramount into a “World Class Media and Technology Enterprise” is a ridiculous justification:As Kafka writes:The real problem that Paramount — and just about every other big media company — has these days isn’t that its tech isn’t good enough. It’s that its scale isn’t big enough. That’s why you constantly hear about media companies — including Paramount — as potential M&A targets: Investors believe they can’t take on Netflix and YouTube on their own. That’s also why you constantly hear about streamers trying to bundle themselves together — something both Ellison and Paramount’s previous managers have been openly talking up as well.So, techifying Paramount’s streaming operations sounds … fine — if Ellison and crew can really do a better job than Paramount’s old guard. But it won’t be adequate.What I come back to is the biggest lesson I have learned about the media over a decade of writing about the industry; frommy interview with Matthew Belloni:It’s easy to go back in 2010 and say, “I’m King of Hollywood and this is the way things should go”, but is the reality, and this has been as I’ve looked at my coverage of media in Hollywood, which I think I’ve had some good calls, but there’s ones not as good, such that I think my hit rate is not as high as it is in tech, and I feel like from my perspective, a mistake that I’ve made is I have a thesis or a way of looking at the world that I always talk about, which is people instinctually look at companies that do things they disagree with, and the implicit assumptions is the people in the company are stupid. By and large, actually they’re not stupid. What’s interesting is understanding, “Why do they do stupid things?”, that’s where a lot of the insight comes.But there is an extent where I feel like when I looked at Hollywood, it’s not that I over-applied this thesis, but rather I underestimated the personal dynamics of just understanding the people and understanding why they couldn’t get along. It wasn’t always about the economics, it wasn’t always about the business model. Unlike tech where these companies are coming up, they’re building up from startups, these are entities that have existed for a very long time.MB:100 years with some of them.They’re super high status, they’re super prestigious. They attract a person that is attracted to that for certain things, and that is a factor in these getting-along bits that I did not understand sufficiently, did not give enough credit to.I continue to think that Paramount+ is a terrible idea that will continue to burn cash both directly (in terms of operating the service and acquiring customers) and indirectly (by virtue of under-paying for content that could more profitably be sold elsewhere). If Paramount wants to be independent it should focus on making and selling content; if it wants to be in the streaming business it needs to be merged with someone else (ideally Warner Bros. Discovery if the debt could be managed, given that WBD could really use a broadcast network). I also think that none of these considerations matter: Redstone wants to exit on her terms, which include considerations beyond the financial, and David Ellison wants to expand his Hollywood empire. That’s the analysis that matters, andthe aforementioned Belloni agrees:This isn’t quite a Jeff Bezos buying the Washington Post charity mission, but the Ellisons were certainly motivated buyers. David wanted this; Shari wanted someone who would keep her dad’s legacy relatively intact; David’s father, as the 10th-richest person in the world and pushing 80 years old, is in the position to buy this company for his son; so… deal done. For a transaction so financially complex, it’s not that complicated.What is complicated is the long-run bullcase for Netflix in particular: this deal is a reminder that it will take longer than you might think for Hollywood to settle into an economically rational structure, which is likely to take the form of significant consolidation and studios selling (most) content to Netflix as the industry Aggregator. However, this isn’t SaaS or enterprise hardware sales, or unsexy industry of your choice; it’s the sexiest industry of all time, and that both means a higher likelihood of stupid decisions (like the pell-mell rush into streaming a la Paramount+) and a painfully long wait for economically rational ones.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Well, I decided to come back with a bang yesterday, arguing thatThe E.U. Goes Too Farin its recent approach to tech regulation (more on this in a bit). I do apologize that the Article came out so late: I had some major logistical challenges that are ultimately unimportant and my responsibility. One of the challenges of writing public Articles is that folks reading don’t have the context of the various Articles and Updates I have written over the last decade; specifically, I was very early to criticizing Apple for its approach to the App Store — as inthe very first few weeks of Stratechery— and I have continued those complaints (and sharpened them) over time. I still look back with amusement at a 2015 Felix Salmon post about Stratechery calledThe Ingredients of a Great Newsletter, wherein he annotated a post that included a bit about the App Store, declaring that it was important for a newsletter to have some sort of geeky obsession that wasn’t that important but that the author really cared about (the annotation is unfortunately lost to time; you’ll have to take my word for it). In short, I have cared about the App Store — and have been largely critical — since long before it was cool. To that end, I’m not surprised, but still frustrated, that I have seen a fair bit of feedback to yesterday’s post interpreting it as a full-throated defense of Apple’s approach to the App Store. In fact, the post wasn’t about the App Store at all (indeed, to the extent I discussed specific App Store policies, I defended the E.U.’s attack on Apple’s anti-steering provision); the reason the post was so long is that I wanted to document what I see as a worrying pattern to E.U. regulation of big tech: there has been a shift from proscribing actions to compelling them, and I object to that in principle. And, I would add, even there the line is fuzzy: it’s one thing to insist on, say, a browser choice screen; that is compelling action on the part of a company, but it’s ultimately fairly harmless. Demanding that Meta offer its services with a business model of the E.U.’s choosing, though, absolutely goes too far, and I would say the same thing about the Google Shopping case and a potential case against Nvidia’s integration. I must admit, though, that the App Store is the most difficult example of the four. On one hand, as I noted yesterday, the European Commission does seem on the verge of compelling Apple to make its intellectual property available to developers for free on an ongoing basis; that fits into the overall pattern of compelling a company to do something they don’t want to do, which I view as a different category than proscribing them from doing something viewed as harmful or undesirable. On the other hand, I am receptive to arguments that platforms are different; indeed, that is another argument I have been making for years. FromA Framework for Regulating Competition on the Internet: That certain companies have advantages or earn sustainable profits is not a sufficient reason for regulators to act; innovation deserves its reward. Moreover, the presence of abuses like those detailed above is also not necessarily a sufficient reason for regulators to act: regulation can have a chilling effect on innovation, it can be ineffective, and it can incur significant opportunity costs on both companies and regulators. Regulators should focus their attention and resources on abuses for which there is no other recourse than regulation. This is where the distinction between platforms and Aggregators is critical. Platforms are the most powerful economic and innovation engines in technology: they create the possibility for products that never existed previously, and are the foundation for huge amounts of innovation. It is in the interest of society that there be more and larger platforms, not fewer and smaller. At the same time, the danger of platform abuse is significantly greater, because users and 3rd-party developers have no other alternative. That means that not only are anticompetitive actions unfair to products that already exist, they also foreclose the creation of an untold number of new products. To that end, regulators should simultaneously encourage the formation of new platforms while ensuring those platforms do not abuse their position. From a practical standpoint, this means that platforms should have significant latitude in mergers and acquisitions, but significant scrutiny in terms of vertical foreclosure, rent-seeking, bundling, and self-dealing. Apple is the pre-eminent example here: the iPhone specifically and the entire iPhone ecosystem generally has benefitted tremendously not only from Apple’s internally-created innovations but also from acquisitions like P.A. Semi, which led to the creation of Apple’s A-series of chips. However, the combination of Apple’s total control over 3rd-party app installation and rent-seeking on in-app payments has, in my estimation, stunted innovation and opportunity in the app ecosystem. Aggregators are different. Yes, they provide value to end users and to third-parties, at least for a time, but the incentives are warped from the beginning: 3rd-parties are not actually incentivized to serve users well, but rather to make the Aggregator happy. The implication from a societal perspective is that the economic impact of an Aggregator is much more self-contained than a platform, which means there is correspondingly less of a concern about limiting Aggregator growth. For the same reason, though, Aggregators are less of a problem. Third parties can — and should! — go around Aggregators to connect to consumers directly; the presence of an Aggregator is just as likely to spur innovation on the part of a third party in an attempt to attract consumers without having to pay an Aggregator for access. Moreover, there is a Sisyphean aspect to regulating power predicated on consumer choice: look no further than the European Union, where regulators are frustrated that remedies for the Google shopping case aren’t working, even though those same regulators were happy with the remedies in theory; the problem was trying to regulate consumer choice in the first place. It follows, then, that regulatory priorities should be the opposite of platforms: given that Aggregator power comes from controlling demand, regulators should look at the acquisition of other potential Aggregators with extreme skepticism. At the same time, whatever an Aggregator chooses to do on its own site or app is less important, because users and third parties can always go elsewhere, and if they don’t, that is because they are satisfied. Forgive the long excerpt, but I think this distinction is absolutely crucial generally, and very pertinent to what I wrote yesterday specifically: Google and Meta are Aggregators, and I correspondingly find the European Commission’s cases against them to be the most problematic; Apple and Nvidia are platforms, and so they deserve more regulatory scrutiny. And, of the two, Apple is the biggest problem — and this is an addition to what I wrote in the piece I just excerpted — because Apple, at least in the context of the App Store,is also an Aggregator. They control demand for apps and thus can dictate terms to their suppliers (developers), but at the same time, because they are a platform, they can also foreclose a direct connection for developers to end users. “If yes” is where it gets tricky: in yesterday’s Article I ultimately argued that the European Commission shouldn’t be compelling Apple to give away its intellectual property, but for me it’s really close; I could very easily make the argument that platforms of the scale of the iPhone are so important to the economy generally that, in the case of a total elimination of alternative means of distribution — and remember, Apple goes so far as to actually limit what developers cansayin their apps — it is actually legitimate to compel open and free access to said platform. Notice, though, that I used two adjectives there: the DMA compelsopenaccess to iOS, within certain parameters involving security; the dispute here is about whether or not that open access should actually befree. That, ultimately, is where I have drawn the line, but I totally understand folks that think that the E.U. is in the right here (but come on, you have to agree that the Meta case is absurd!). Paramount Global agreed to merge with David Ellison’s Skydance Media in a complicated deal that ends the Redstone family’s involvement with the Hollywood company. Shari Redstone is selling her family’s controlling stake in Paramount Global and merging the entertainment giant with Skydance Media, drawing to a close a nearly four-decade run by her and her father as entertainment power players. Skydance and its investors have agreed to spend more than $8 billion to acquire National Amusements, the family company that controls Paramount, and invest in the new iteration of the iconic company. The deal gives the beleaguered entertainment company an injection of cash at a time when the traditional media landscape is in decline. The deal is a bit complicated: Skydance is buying National Amusements, the Redstone holding company which holds controlling shares in Paramount, and then compelling Paramount to acquire Skydance and put Skydance management in charge; one of the hangups in the deal getting over the finish line was Redstone’s push for more indemnification from shareholder lawsuits objecting to the terms. There is also a 45-day “go-shop period” where other potential acquirers can make a bid for Paramount, which includes several cable channels, the CBS broadcasting network, and the Paramount studio. In my opinon, that 45-day “go-shop period” highlights the most important takeaway of this deal. On one hand, it has the fig leaf of being shareholder friendly — Redstone is carving out time to make sure she gets the best deal! In fact, though, I think it’s the opposite; note the specific dates: 45 days from yesterday is August 5th, exactly two months before the 2024 Presidential election. The reason this matters is that most people assume that a Trump election (re-election?) will mean a dramatic relaxation in scrutiny for mergers and acquisitions; that is particularly important for Paramount because the most obvious alternative acquirers for Paramount are other media companies, which is to say that under the Biden administration most alternative acquirers are probably on the sidelines (yes, Biden is down in the polls, but no one wants to risk an antitrust fight). In short, I don’t think this is a shareholder-friendly provision at all; what I think is that Redstone wants/needs to sell, because Paramount has slashed her dividend to service its debt, but given that Paramount was her father’s life’s work she wants to make sure it stays independent, and Skydance is the best option in that regard. After all, Skydance itself is a bit of a rich man’s passion project, given that David Ellison is the son of Oracle founder Larry Ellison, the primary investor in the deal. Notice that none of this has anything to do with the actual business at hand.I agree with Peter Kafkathat David Ellison’s pitch about transforming Paramount into a “World Class Media and Technology Enterprise” is a ridiculous justification: The real problem that Paramount — and just about every other big media company — has these days isn’t that its tech isn’t good enough. It’s that its scale isn’t big enough. That’s why you constantly hear about media companies — including Paramount — as potential M&A targets: Investors believe they can’t take on Netflix and YouTube on their own. That’s also why you constantly hear about streamers trying to bundle themselves together — something both Ellison and Paramount’s previous managers have been openly talking up as well. It’s easy to go back in 2010 and say, “I’m King of Hollywood and this is the way things should go”, but is the reality, and this has been as I’ve looked at my coverage of media in Hollywood, which I think I’ve had some good calls, but there’s ones not as good, such that I think my hit rate is not as high as it is in tech, and I feel like from my perspective, a mistake that I’ve made is I have a thesis or a way of looking at the world that I always talk about, which is people instinctually look at companies that do things they disagree with, and the implicit assumptions is the people in the company are stupid. By and large, actually they’re not stupid. What’s interesting is understanding, “Why do they do stupid things?”, that’s where a lot of the insight comes. But there is an extent where I feel like when I looked at Hollywood, it’s not that I over-applied this thesis, but rather I underestimated the personal dynamics of just understanding the people and understanding why they couldn’t get along. It wasn’t always about the economics, it wasn’t always about the business model. Unlike tech where these companies are coming up, they’re building up from startups, these are entities that have existed for a very long time. They’re super high status, they’re super prestigious. They attract a person that is attracted to that for certain things, and that is a factor in these getting-along bits that I did not understand sufficiently, did not give enough credit to. I continue to think that Paramount+ is a terrible idea that will continue to burn cash both directly (in terms of operating the service and acquiring customers) and indirectly (by virtue of under-paying for content that could more profitably be sold elsewhere). If Paramount wants to be independent it should focus on making and selling content; if it wants to be in the streaming business it needs to be merged with someone else (ideally Warner Bros. Discovery if the debt could be managed, given that WBD could really use a broadcast network). I also think that none of these considerations matter: Redstone wants to exit on her terms, which include considerations beyond the financial, and David Ellison wants to expand his Hollywood empire. That’s the analysis that matters, andthe aforementioned Belloni agrees: This isn’t quite a Jeff Bezos buying the Washington Post charity mission, but the Ellisons were certainly motivated buyers. David wanted this; Shari wanted someone who would keep her dad’s legacy relatively intact; David’s father, as the 10th-richest person in the world and pushing 80 years old, is in the position to buy this company for his son; so… deal done. For a transaction so financially complex, it’s not that complicated. What is complicated is the long-run bullcase for Netflix in particular: this deal is a reminder that it will take longer than you might think for Hollywood to settle into an economically rational structure, which is likely to take the form of significant consolidation and studios selling (most) content to Netflix as the industry Aggregator. However, this isn’t SaaS or enterprise hardware sales, or unsexy industry of your choice; it’s the sexiest industry of all time, and that both means a higher likelihood of stupid decisions (like the pell-mell rush into streaming a la Paramount+) and a painfully long wait for economically rational ones. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025