# [PODCAST] SUMMER SCHOOL 1: Recessions & Rap Battles

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2022/06/07/1103545443/planet-money-summer-school-1-recessions-rap-battles
**Atlas ID**: 229518
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.850879

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Keynes vs. Hayek: An economic policy rap battle : Planet MoneyIt's macro time! Today: Keynes vs. Hayek.Season 3 of summer school is here asking the biggest economic questions about what makes an entire economy grow or contract? Things like, is there a "right" level of unemployment? Who gains from trade? What rhymes with 'paradox of thrift'? Also, inflation, we'll get to inflation.Episode 1 begins with the rise of macroeconomics as a field, with one of the great economic debates of the 20th century: what causes booms and busts, and what can the government do about it? How free should a free market be?It's a debate (over beats and with an actual rap battle) between John Maynard Keynes and F.A Hayek.Watch this Tik Tokto learn more. | Subscribe to our weekly newsletterhere. | Listen to past seasons of Summer Schoolhere. | Listen to our econ songs of the summer on Spotify. | Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkPlanet Money Summer School 1: Recessions & Rap BattlesJuly 13, 202210:42 PM ETByStacey Vanek Smith,Alex Blumberg,Chana Joffe-WaltPlanet Money Summer School 1: Recessions & Rap BattlesListen·31:0731:07TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1103545443/1198960047" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageA student discovers macroeconomics in the darkness of the Great Depression.James Yang for NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Yang for NPRA student discovers macroeconomics in the darkness of the Great Depression.James Yang for NPRFind all episodes of Planet Money Summer School here.Planet Money Summer School is back! It's the free economics class you can take from anywhere... for everyone!For season three of Summer School we ask the big economic questions. It's time for macroeconomics! What makes a country grow richer? Is there a "right" level of unemployment? What rhymes with 'paradox of thrift'? Also, inflation, we'll get to inflation.Our first lesson concerns one of the most fundamental economic debates of the last hundred years: what causes booms and busts, recessions and depressions? And what can the government do about it? Or, should the government just get out of the way?How free should a free market be?Sponsor MessageThe big economic policies we know today emerged from the depths of the Great Depression, a time when the government had few tools to control the macroeconomic forces that were wreaking havoc on the average American's life and livelihood.From that darkness emerged two economists determined to shine a light and end the crisis, albeit inverydifferent ways: In one corner we have John Maynard Keynes, a vivacious, charismatic public face of economics, still so to this day, who argued for a larger role for the federal government to counter balance market forces. And in the other corner, F.A. Hayek, an austere and comparatively little-known Austrian economist, who argued for just the opposite, that government was likely to do more harm than good meddling with economic booms and busts.On today's episode we're throwing it back to a classic episode that reimagines their battle over monetary policy...as an actual rap battle. The rhymes come at you fast, but our friendly summer school professors are here to play rap battle genius, making the big ideas clear and simple ... even if you're listening with one ear from a beach chair.  Pay close attention and you just might pass the test and get your own Planet Money Summer School diploma at the end of the season come Labor Day.Sponsor MessageWe cover:John Maynard KeynesFriedrich von HayekParadox of thriftInterest ratesAnimal spiritsHomework assignment:Find a song that makes you think about some part of the economy and tell us what you picked!Tag us on any social media. We're on:Twitter,Instagram, andTiktok.  Make sure to use #PMSummerschool.Every week, we'll pick a few of our favorites and add them toour playlist.Extra Credit:Our PM TikTok of the week.Music:Spotify PlaylistFind us:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokSubscribe to our show onApple Podcasts,Pocket CastsandNPR One.Want extra credit? Subscribe to Planet Money'sNewsletterFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Planet Money Summer School 1: Recessions & Rap BattlesListen·31:0731:07TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1103545443/1198960047" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Planet Money Summer School 1: Recessions & Rap BattlesListen·31:0731:07TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1103545443/1198960047" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1103545443/1198960047" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageA student discovers macroeconomics in the darkness of the Great Depression.James Yang for NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Yang for NPRA student discovers macroeconomics in the darkness of the Great Depression.James Yang for NPRFind all episodes of Planet Money Summer School here.Planet Money Summer School is back! It's the free economics class you can take from anywhere... for everyone!For season three of Summer School we ask the big economic questions. It's time for macroeconomics! What makes a country grow richer? Is there a "right" level of unemployment? What rhymes with 'paradox of thrift'? Also, inflation, we'll get to inflation.Our first lesson concerns one of the most fundamental economic debates of the last hundred years: what causes booms and busts, recessions and depressions? And what can the government do about it? Or, should the government just get out of the way?How free should a free market be?Sponsor MessageThe big economic policies we know today emerged from the depths of the Great Depression, a time when the government had few tools to control the macroeconomic forces that were wreaking havoc on the average American's life and livelihood.From that darkness emerged two economists determined to shine a light and end the crisis, albeit inverydifferent ways: In one corner we have John Maynard Keynes, a vivacious, charismatic public face of economics, still so to this day, who argued for a larger role for the federal government to counter balance market forces. And in the other corner, F.A. Hayek, an austere and comparatively little-known Austrian economist, who argued for just the opposite, that government was likely to do more harm than good meddling with economic booms and busts.On today's episode we're throwing it back to a classic episode that reimagines their battle over monetary policy...as an actual rap battle. The rhymes come at you fast, but our friendly summer school professors are here to play rap battle genius, making the big ideas clear and simple ... even if you're listening with one ear from a beach chair.  Pay close attention and you just might pass the test and get your own Planet Money Summer School diploma at the end of the season come Labor Day.Sponsor MessageWe cover:John Maynard KeynesFriedrich von HayekParadox of thriftInterest ratesAnimal spiritsHomework assignment:Find a song that makes you think about some part of the economy and tell us what you picked!Tag us on any social media. We're on:Twitter,Instagram, andTiktok.  Make sure to use #PMSummerschool.Every week, we'll pick a few of our favorites and add them toour playlist.Extra Credit:Our PM TikTok of the week.Music:Spotify PlaylistFind us:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokSubscribe to our show onApple Podcasts,Pocket CastsandNPR One.Want extra credit? Subscribe to Planet Money'sNewsletter Enlarge this imageA student discovers macroeconomics in the darkness of the Great Depression.James Yang for NPRhide captiontoggle captionJames Yang for NPRA student discovers macroeconomics in the darkness of the Great Depression.James Yang for NPR For season three of Summer School we ask the big economic questions. It's time for macroeconomics! What makes a country grow richer? Is there a "right" level of unemployment? What rhymes with 'paradox of thrift'? Also, inflation, we'll get to inflation. Our first lesson concerns one of the most fundamental economic debates of the last hundred years: what causes booms and busts, recessions and depressions? And what can the government do about it? Or, should the government just get out of the way?How free should a free market be? The big economic policies we know today emerged from the depths of the Great Depression, a time when the government had few tools to control the macroeconomic forces that were wreaking havoc on the average American's life and livelihood. From that darkness emerged two economists determined to shine a light and end the crisis, albeit inverydifferent ways: In one corner we have John Maynard Keynes, a vivacious, charismatic public face of economics, still so to this day, who argued for a larger role for the federal government to counter balance market forces. And in the other corner, F.A. Hayek, an austere and comparatively little-known Austrian economist, who argued for just the opposite, that government was likely to do more harm than good meddling with economic booms and busts. On today's episode we're throwing it back to a classic episode that reimagines their battle over monetary policy...as an actual rap battle. The rhymes come at you fast, but our friendly summer school professors are here to play rap battle genius, making the big ideas clear and simple ... even if you're listening with one ear from a beach chair.  Pay close attention and you just might pass the test and get your own Planet Money Summer School diploma at the end of the season come Labor Day. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra