# [PODCAST] Summer School 1: A government's role in the economy is to make us all richer

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/07/09/1255376133/summer-school-government-inclusive-extractive-institutions
**Atlas ID**: 229438
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.835855

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Summer School: What's the right role of government in the economy? : Planet MoneyGovernment. The Big G. We like to imagine the free market and the invisible hand as being independent from political influence. But Nobel laureate, Simon Johnson, says that influence has been there since the birth of economics. Call it political economy. Call it government and business. Call it our big topic each Wednesday through Labor Day.We're kicking off another semester of Planet Money Summer School asking the biggest question: Why are some nations rich and others poor? With stories from India, New York City and Peru, we look at the ways in which government bureaucracy can help make or break an economy.Tickets for Planet Money Live at the Bell Houseavailable here. Planet Money+ supporters get a 10 percent discount off their tickets. Go toplus.npr.orgto sign up, if you haven't already, and listen to the July 8th bonus episode to get the discount code.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Planet Money+ supporters get early access to new episodes of Summer School this season! You also get sponsor-free listening, regular bonus episodes, and you'll help support the work of Planet Money.Sign up for Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkSummer School 1: A government's role in the economy is to make us all richerJuly 9, 20253:00 AM ETByRobert Smith,Eric Mennel,Alex Goldmark,Emily CrawfordSummer School 1: A government's role in the economy is to make us all richerListen·35:4635:46TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1255376133/1269598064" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageNPRNPRGovernment. The Big G. Sometimes we talk about the free market and the invisible hand as being independent from political influence. But since the birth of economics the two have been interwoven."Adam Smith and other early writers on economics did not see any separation between economics and politics. Meaning — who makes the decisions around the rule of law and markets and all the things that make the economy function." says Summer School guest professor and Nobel laureate Simon Johnson.This season of Planet Money Summer School we continue our tradition of taking the biggest ideas in economics, asking the hardest questions, and turning that into the easiest listening "course" for your ears, designed to take with you to the beach or anywhere else for a little extra learning on the go. Each Wednesday through Labor Day this summer, we're tackling what academics call political economy but the rest of us might just call something like: whatever the government does in the market.Sponsor Message(Planet Money+ supporters get access to episodes one week early and 10% off live event tickets. Sign up here:plus.npr.org/planetmoney.)We'll ask questions like: What role should a government play in the economy? How big does government have to be to be 'Big Government'? When does intervention help and when does it hurt?In this first, we ask one of the biggest questions of all: Why are some countries rich and some countries poor?Featured Excerpts:Fear and Taxes in Jamaica(2010)The Invisible Wall(2015)Featured Terms:The Informal SectorInclusive InstitutionsExtractive InstitutionsThe series is hosted by Robert Smith and produced by Eric Mennel. Our project manager is Devin Mellor. This episode was edited by Planet Money Executive Producer Alex Goldmark and fact-checked by Emily Crawford and Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Neal Rausch.Planet Money+ supporters get early access to new episodes of Summer School this season! You also get sponsor-free listening, regular bonus episodes, and you'll help support the work of Planet Money. Sign up for Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Summer School 1: A government's role in the economy is to make us all richerListen·35:4635:46TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1255376133/1269598064" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Summer School 1: A government's role in the economy is to make us all richerListen·35:4635:46TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1255376133/1269598064" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1255376133/1269598064" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageNPRNPRGovernment. The Big G. Sometimes we talk about the free market and the invisible hand as being independent from political influence. But since the birth of economics the two have been interwoven."Adam Smith and other early writers on economics did not see any separation between economics and politics. Meaning — who makes the decisions around the rule of law and markets and all the things that make the economy function." says Summer School guest professor and Nobel laureate Simon Johnson.This season of Planet Money Summer School we continue our tradition of taking the biggest ideas in economics, asking the hardest questions, and turning that into the easiest listening "course" for your ears, designed to take with you to the beach or anywhere else for a little extra learning on the go. Each Wednesday through Labor Day this summer, we're tackling what academics call political economy but the rest of us might just call something like: whatever the government does in the market.Sponsor Message(Planet Money+ supporters get access to episodes one week early and 10% off live event tickets. Sign up here:plus.npr.org/planetmoney.)We'll ask questions like: What role should a government play in the economy? How big does government have to be to be 'Big Government'? When does intervention help and when does it hurt?In this first, we ask one of the biggest questions of all: Why are some countries rich and some countries poor?Featured Excerpts:Fear and Taxes in Jamaica(2010)The Invisible Wall(2015)Featured Terms:The Informal SectorInclusive InstitutionsExtractive InstitutionsThe series is hosted by Robert Smith and produced by Eric Mennel. Our project manager is Devin Mellor. This episode was edited by Planet Money Executive Producer Alex Goldmark and fact-checked by Emily Crawford and Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Neal Rausch.Planet Money+ supporters get early access to new episodes of Summer School this season! You also get sponsor-free listening, regular bonus episodes, and you'll help support the work of Planet Money. Sign up for Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter. "Adam Smith and other early writers on economics did not see any separation between economics and politics. Meaning — who makes the decisions around the rule of law and markets and all the things that make the economy function." says Summer School guest professor and Nobel laureate Simon Johnson. This season of Planet Money Summer School we continue our tradition of taking the biggest ideas in economics, asking the hardest questions, and turning that into the easiest listening "course" for your ears, designed to take with you to the beach or anywhere else for a little extra learning on the go. Each Wednesday through Labor Day this summer, we're tackling what academics call political economy but the rest of us might just call something like: whatever the government does in the market. The series is hosted by Robert Smith and produced by Eric Mennel. Our project manager is Devin Mellor. This episode was edited by Planet Money Executive Producer Alex Goldmark and fact-checked by Emily Crawford and Sierra Juarez. Engineering by Neal Rausch. Planet Money+ supporters get early access to new episodes of Summer School this season! You also get sponsor-free listening, regular bonus episodes, and you'll help support the work of Planet Money. Sign up for Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra