# [PODCAST] Google Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI Products

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/google-earnings-search-and-ai-building-ai-products/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.R2owjQcLiL36mdbUGdl3HYGH8bGcOUXq8JZAobX8VzjZjDD-HidsyzvCSXSws6zN3bcNN-NtBYKnwptXSMBVd1vRsISDNtfMspVLgoiiI6YNKqddIrwzlQyFi3dokUwDUx2NeqOrPU0l4U58m4En4TMvZy6IFaaxOY8eFKapgQbk4MOfe1isGog_wKEAKcoXpGBeenrGkbZgAKucrcCJF5g_cZu7lhF5DtpIM4gal-XVvyJCWxzeXnvI1DuoGN1scEGg2bT2pRC3QHn1PVrbJoXcQrhNYPHGCRM9cA3SDdWscqDH8R0Rrq1dAzJ01gOzM_2ub7ScLq6LFLXAPq_yEg
**Atlas ID**: 229587
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.891981

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirGoogle Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI ProductsMonday, April 28, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s Sharp Tech, we discussedApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past, and why Tim Cook is such a complicated figure at this critical point for Apple’s future (John Gruber and I had a similar discussion onFriday’s Dithering).On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s earnings power is holding up well, even as the internet giant spends record sums on artificial intelligence in the midst of global economic turbulence. Parent company Alphabet reported operating income of $30.6 billion for the first quarter on Thursday — solidly beating Wall Street’s forecast of $28.7 billion. Revenue rose across the company’s business units but was largely in line with analyst estimates. Capital expenditures reached a record $17.2 billion in the quarter.The stronger bottom line showed Google’s resilience in a quarter that was marked by fears of an impending trade war and the effect that could have on the global economy. Alphabet’s share price rose 5% in after-hours trading following the results. But those worries remain. Google doesn’t issue financial projections with its quarterly reports, which leaves it unclear just how its business was affected by President Trump’s April 2 announcement of high tariffs, and the turbulence that has followed amid the ever-changing status of those tariffs. On the company’s earnings call Thursday, Google’s Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said it is “too early to comment” on trends for the current quarter.This was a pretty interesting quarter for Google, and I’m not sure how I feel; my takes on the company have been pretty contrarian, including last quarter: investors didn’t like the big capex numbers that were announced — $75 billion for 2025, which management reiterated on this call — but I saw clear evidence that it was justified in the Google Cloud numbers. Those were disappointing on the top line, but if you looked under the surface, the fact that margin expanded strongly suggested that Google Cloud was in fact capacity constrained, as management said. And, given that Google Cloud is — asI discussed in my interview with CEO Thomas Kurian— the company’s purest AI play, thanks to the fact it is not disruptive to their core business, directly leverages Google’s unmatched strengths in infrastructure and research, and not dependent on Google’s ossified product organization, more capex to catch up to pent-up demand is a good thing.Given all that, I was a little disappointed in Google Cloud this quarter. Here is the table I keep going back to:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Growth was even slower this quarter than last quarter, and margins didn’t expand. What makes this more concerning is that this is the first quarter with Google Workspace’s latest price raise; this is from Google CFO Anat Ashkenazi onthe company’s earnings call:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 28% to $12.3 billion in the first quarter, reflecting growth in GCP across core and AI products at a rate that was much higher than Cloud’s overall revenue growth rate. Growth in Google Workspace was primarily driven by an increase in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud operating income increased to $2.2 billion and operating margin increased from 9.4% to 17.8%.Ashkenazi went on to note that Cloud was still supply constrained:Second in Cloud, we’re in a tight demand supply environment and given that revenues are correlated with the timing of deployment of new capacity, we could see variability in cloud revenue growth rates depending on capacity deployment each quarter. We expect relatively higher capacity deployment towards the end of 2025.It would be nice to have some visibility into those AI numbers that are growing faster than Google Cloud’s overall revenue, or have an idea of what percentage of Google Cloud comes from Workspace; for now I’m going to eagerly await whatever quarter it is where capacity is less of a question, while casting a bit of a side-eye at those Workspace price increases and to what extent they are responsible for margin expansion.Search and AIThe other interesting question — the eternally interesting question, when it comes to Google — is Search and AI.First, ChatGPTmay have 800 million users— Gemini’s 35 million users is a rounding error comparatively speaking (although that is a DAU number; the equivalent ChatGPT number is surely much smaller than the total user number that is floating around) — but in fact the most-used generative AI product in the world is Google Search’s AI Overviews. Pichai said in his opening statement:And for Search, we see it growing the number and types of questions we can answer. We are already seeing this with AI Overviews, which now has more than 1.5 billion users every month. Nearly a year after we launched AI Overviews in the US, we continue to see that usage growth is increasing as people learn that Search is more useful for more of their queries.So we are leaning in heavily here, continuing to roll the feature out to new countries to more users and to more queries. Building on the positive feedback for AI Overviews, in March we released AI Mode, an experiment in labs. It expands what AI Overviews can do with more advanced reasoning, thinking, and multimodal capabilities to help with questions that need further exploration and comparisons. On average, AI Mode queries are twice as long as traditional Search queries. We’re getting really positive feedback from early users about its design, fast response time, and ability to understand complex nuanced questions. We also continue to see significant growth in multimodal queries.An analyst asked Pichai how to think about these three experiences (Gemini, AI Overview, and AI Mode):On AI-powered Search and how do we see our consumer experience. Look I do think Search and Gemini obviously will be two distinct efforts, right? I think there are obviously some areas of overlap, but there are also like expose very, very different use cases. And so for example, in Gemini, we see people iteratively coding and going much deeper on a coding workflow as an example. So I think both will be around. Within Search we think of AI Overviews scaling up and working for our entire user base, but an AI Mode is the tip of the tree for us pushing forward on an AI forward experience. There will be things which we discover there which will make sense in the context of AI Overviews. So I think will flow through to our user base. But you almost want to think of what are the most advanced 1 million people using Search for, the most advanced 10 million people and then how do 1.5 billion people use Search for. And we want to innovate and so I think this allows us to do that. But the true north through all of this is user feedback, user satisfaction, user experience. And so that will determine where this all works out in the future.Icontinue to thinkthat Google’s general de-prioritization of Gemini relative to search makes sense; along the same lines I also like how the company is thinking about AI Mode and figuring out ways to make generative AI more useful within the Search experience. No, this isn’t very sexy or “disruptive”, but the truth is that incumbents with huge cash cows can often do more damage to themselves trying to avoid disruption, when sometimes the best you can do is ride that cash cow and leverage its advantages — like being the default experience for billions of users — as long as you can.The other interesting AI implication for Google is what it is doing for their revenue; last week Eric Seufert and I talked aboutthe inescapable power of Google and Meta’s blackbox advertising, where you give up control and give into the algorithm; management spent a lot of time on this call talking about exactly that. This is from CBO Philipp Schindler’s prepared remarks:More businesses, big and small, are adopting AI-powered campaigns. And the deployment of AI across our Ads business is driving results for our customers and for our business. Throughout 2024, we launched several features that leverage LLMs to enhance advertiser value, and we’re seeing this work pay off. The combination of these launches now allows us to match Ads to more relevant Search queries, and this helps advertisers reach customers in searches where we would not previously have shown their Ads.Focusing on our customers, we continue to solve advertisers’ pain points and find opportunities to help them create, distribute, and measure more performant Ads, infusing AI at every step of the marketing process. On Audience Insights, we released new asset audience recommendations, which tell businesses the themes that resonate most with their top audiences. On Creators, advertisers can now generate a broader variety of lifestyle imagery customized to their business to better engage their customers and use them across PMax, Demand Gen, Display, and App campaigns. Additionally, in PMax, advertisers can automatically source images from their landing pages and crop them, increasing the variety of their assets. On Media Buying, advertisers continue to see how AI powered campaigns help them find new customers. In Demand Gen, advertisers can more precisely manage ad placements across YouTube, Gmail, Discover, and Google Display Network globally and understand which assets work best at a channel level.Thanks to dozens of AI part improvements launched in 2024, businesses using Demand Gen now see an average 26% year-on-year increase in conversions per dollar spent for goals like purchases and leads. And when using Demand Gen with product feed, on average, they see more than double the conversion per dollar spent year-over-year.All of these puts and takes on Google Search come together in this chart:This chart is roughly similar to a chart I’ve long referenced in Meta earnings; in that case I track the change in ad revenue, DAU, price-per-ad, and ad impression growth, and one of the important takeaways is that it’s actually good when prices-per-ad are falling while ad impressions rise, because that is creating the conditions for future growth (i.e. when Stories or Reels increased inventory).Google’s disclosures are not as substantial anymore — and annoyingly, recent 10-Ks only report aggregate numbers for the year, so this chart is limited to three 10-Qs a year — but it’s still a useful thing to look at. Specifically, it’s notable the extent to which Google Properties ad revenue is, particularly since 2023, driven by increased prices, not increased clicks. Again, those two metrics should move in opposition to one another, which they are; the problem is that they are moving in the wrong direction if the question is about the long-term trajectory of the Search business. AI is helping Google monetize better; it also may be limiting Google’s opportunities to do just that, at least for now.Building AI ProductsPete Koomen wrote an excellent Article last week calledAI Horseless Carriages:I noticed something interesting the other day: I enjoy using AI to build software more than I enjoy using most AI applications — software built with AI. When I use AI to build software I feel like I can create almost anything I can imagine very quickly. AI feels like a power tool. It’s a lot of fun. Many AI apps don’t feel like that. Their AI features feel tacked-on and useless, even counter-productive.I am beginning to suspect that these apps are the “horseless carriages” of the AI era. They’re bad because they mimic old ways of building software that unnecessarily constrain the AI models they’re built with. To illustrate what I mean by that, I’ll start with an example of a badly designed AI app.The example Koomen gives is Gmail, where, hilariously, he has to type far more in a prompt to get the right email response than the amount he would have to type to simply send the email himself; he goes on to explain how a much more useful capability would be the ability to customize the system prompt.Read the whole thing; this is the takeaway:My core contention in this essay is this: when an LLM agent is acting on my behalf I should be allowed to teach it how to do that by editing the System Prompt. Does this mean I always want to write my own System Prompt from scratch? No. I’ve been using Gmail for twenty years; Gemini should be able to write a draft prompt for me using my emails as reference examples. I’d like to be able to see that prompt and edit it, though, because the way I write emails and the people correspond with change over time…In most AI apps, System Prompts should be written and maintained by users, not software developers or even domain experts hired by developers. Most AI apps should be agent builders, not agents.Koomen’s critique is directed at all software makers, who need to get out of the mindset of doing everything for the user, and shift to enabling users to systemically solve their own problems; it’s interesting he uses Gmail, however, because it speaks to the product problems I keep mentioning when it comes to Google in particular: the company has the best AI infrastructure, and arguably the best AI, but the product capabilities are seriously in question.That, though, makes the Search evolution that much more notable: the biggest tell of all that Google very much sees AI as a threat to their core business is that that is the one area the company really is desperately trying to figure out their AI product, and moving fast. The race is between incorporating their own AI into Search before someone else’s AI disrupts Search, and it’s one of the most compelling races I’ve ever watched.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Google I/O and the Coming AI BattlesDateMonday, May 15, 2023Google’s Search for the Sweet SpotDateThursday, October 5, 2017←2025.17: Where Will Apple Be in 2035?Intel Earnings, TSMC Earnings→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Google Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI ProductsMonday, April 28, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s Sharp Tech, we discussedApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past, and why Tim Cook is such a complicated figure at this critical point for Apple’s future (John Gruber and I had a similar discussion onFriday’s Dithering).On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s earnings power is holding up well, even as the internet giant spends record sums on artificial intelligence in the midst of global economic turbulence. Parent company Alphabet reported operating income of $30.6 billion for the first quarter on Thursday — solidly beating Wall Street’s forecast of $28.7 billion. Revenue rose across the company’s business units but was largely in line with analyst estimates. Capital expenditures reached a record $17.2 billion in the quarter.The stronger bottom line showed Google’s resilience in a quarter that was marked by fears of an impending trade war and the effect that could have on the global economy. Alphabet’s share price rose 5% in after-hours trading following the results. But those worries remain. Google doesn’t issue financial projections with its quarterly reports, which leaves it unclear just how its business was affected by President Trump’s April 2 announcement of high tariffs, and the turbulence that has followed amid the ever-changing status of those tariffs. On the company’s earnings call Thursday, Google’s Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said it is “too early to comment” on trends for the current quarter.This was a pretty interesting quarter for Google, and I’m not sure how I feel; my takes on the company have been pretty contrarian, including last quarter: investors didn’t like the big capex numbers that were announced — $75 billion for 2025, which management reiterated on this call — but I saw clear evidence that it was justified in the Google Cloud numbers. Those were disappointing on the top line, but if you looked under the surface, the fact that margin expanded strongly suggested that Google Cloud was in fact capacity constrained, as management said. And, given that Google Cloud is — asI discussed in my interview with CEO Thomas Kurian— the company’s purest AI play, thanks to the fact it is not disruptive to their core business, directly leverages Google’s unmatched strengths in infrastructure and research, and not dependent on Google’s ossified product organization, more capex to catch up to pent-up demand is a good thing.Given all that, I was a little disappointed in Google Cloud this quarter. Here is the table I keep going back to:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Growth was even slower this quarter than last quarter, and margins didn’t expand. What makes this more concerning is that this is the first quarter with Google Workspace’s latest price raise; this is from Google CFO Anat Ashkenazi onthe company’s earnings call:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 28% to $12.3 billion in the first quarter, reflecting growth in GCP across core and AI products at a rate that was much higher than Cloud’s overall revenue growth rate. Growth in Google Workspace was primarily driven by an increase in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud operating income increased to $2.2 billion and operating margin increased from 9.4% to 17.8%.Ashkenazi went on to note that Cloud was still supply constrained:Second in Cloud, we’re in a tight demand supply environment and given that revenues are correlated with the timing of deployment of new capacity, we could see variability in cloud revenue growth rates depending on capacity deployment each quarter. We expect relatively higher capacity deployment towards the end of 2025.It would be nice to have some visibility into those AI numbers that are growing faster than Google Cloud’s overall revenue, or have an idea of what percentage of Google Cloud comes from Workspace; for now I’m going to eagerly await whatever quarter it is where capacity is less of a question, while casting a bit of a side-eye at those Workspace price increases and to what extent they are responsible for margin expansion.Search and AIThe other interesting question — the eternally interesting question, when it comes to Google — is Search and AI.First, ChatGPTmay have 800 million users— Gemini’s 35 million users is a rounding error comparatively speaking (although that is a DAU number; the equivalent ChatGPT number is surely much smaller than the total user number that is floating around) — but in fact the most-used generative AI product in the world is Google Search’s AI Overviews. Pichai said in his opening statement:And for Search, we see it growing the number and types of questions we can answer. We are already seeing this with AI Overviews, which now has more than 1.5 billion users every month. Nearly a year after we launched AI Overviews in the US, we continue to see that usage growth is increasing as people learn that Search is more useful for more of their queries.So we are leaning in heavily here, continuing to roll the feature out to new countries to more users and to more queries. Building on the positive feedback for AI Overviews, in March we released AI Mode, an experiment in labs. It expands what AI Overviews can do with more advanced reasoning, thinking, and multimodal capabilities to help with questions that need further exploration and comparisons. On average, AI Mode queries are twice as long as traditional Search queries. We’re getting really positive feedback from early users about its design, fast response time, and ability to understand complex nuanced questions. We also continue to see significant growth in multimodal queries.An analyst asked Pichai how to think about these three experiences (Gemini, AI Overview, and AI Mode):On AI-powered Search and how do we see our consumer experience. Look I do think Search and Gemini obviously will be two distinct efforts, right? I think there are obviously some areas of overlap, but there are also like expose very, very different use cases. And so for example, in Gemini, we see people iteratively coding and going much deeper on a coding workflow as an example. So I think both will be around. Within Search we think of AI Overviews scaling up and working for our entire user base, but an AI Mode is the tip of the tree for us pushing forward on an AI forward experience. There will be things which we discover there which will make sense in the context of AI Overviews. So I think will flow through to our user base. But you almost want to think of what are the most advanced 1 million people using Search for, the most advanced 10 million people and then how do 1.5 billion people use Search for. And we want to innovate and so I think this allows us to do that. But the true north through all of this is user feedback, user satisfaction, user experience. And so that will determine where this all works out in the future.Icontinue to thinkthat Google’s general de-prioritization of Gemini relative to search makes sense; along the same lines I also like how the company is thinking about AI Mode and figuring out ways to make generative AI more useful within the Search experience. No, this isn’t very sexy or “disruptive”, but the truth is that incumbents with huge cash cows can often do more damage to themselves trying to avoid disruption, when sometimes the best you can do is ride that cash cow and leverage its advantages — like being the default experience for billions of users — as long as you can.The other interesting AI implication for Google is what it is doing for their revenue; last week Eric Seufert and I talked aboutthe inescapable power of Google and Meta’s blackbox advertising, where you give up control and give into the algorithm; management spent a lot of time on this call talking about exactly that. This is from CBO Philipp Schindler’s prepared remarks:More businesses, big and small, are adopting AI-powered campaigns. And the deployment of AI across our Ads business is driving results for our customers and for our business. Throughout 2024, we launched several features that leverage LLMs to enhance advertiser value, and we’re seeing this work pay off. The combination of these launches now allows us to match Ads to more relevant Search queries, and this helps advertisers reach customers in searches where we would not previously have shown their Ads.Focusing on our customers, we continue to solve advertisers’ pain points and find opportunities to help them create, distribute, and measure more performant Ads, infusing AI at every step of the marketing process. On Audience Insights, we released new asset audience recommendations, which tell businesses the themes that resonate most with their top audiences. On Creators, advertisers can now generate a broader variety of lifestyle imagery customized to their business to better engage their customers and use them across PMax, Demand Gen, Display, and App campaigns. Additionally, in PMax, advertisers can automatically source images from their landing pages and crop them, increasing the variety of their assets. On Media Buying, advertisers continue to see how AI powered campaigns help them find new customers. In Demand Gen, advertisers can more precisely manage ad placements across YouTube, Gmail, Discover, and Google Display Network globally and understand which assets work best at a channel level.Thanks to dozens of AI part improvements launched in 2024, businesses using Demand Gen now see an average 26% year-on-year increase in conversions per dollar spent for goals like purchases and leads. And when using Demand Gen with product feed, on average, they see more than double the conversion per dollar spent year-over-year.All of these puts and takes on Google Search come together in this chart:This chart is roughly similar to a chart I’ve long referenced in Meta earnings; in that case I track the change in ad revenue, DAU, price-per-ad, and ad impression growth, and one of the important takeaways is that it’s actually good when prices-per-ad are falling while ad impressions rise, because that is creating the conditions for future growth (i.e. when Stories or Reels increased inventory).Google’s disclosures are not as substantial anymore — and annoyingly, recent 10-Ks only report aggregate numbers for the year, so this chart is limited to three 10-Qs a year — but it’s still a useful thing to look at. Specifically, it’s notable the extent to which Google Properties ad revenue is, particularly since 2023, driven by increased prices, not increased clicks. Again, those two metrics should move in opposition to one another, which they are; the problem is that they are moving in the wrong direction if the question is about the long-term trajectory of the Search business. AI is helping Google monetize better; it also may be limiting Google’s opportunities to do just that, at least for now.Building AI ProductsPete Koomen wrote an excellent Article last week calledAI Horseless Carriages:I noticed something interesting the other day: I enjoy using AI to build software more than I enjoy using most AI applications — software built with AI. When I use AI to build software I feel like I can create almost anything I can imagine very quickly. AI feels like a power tool. It’s a lot of fun. Many AI apps don’t feel like that. Their AI features feel tacked-on and useless, even counter-productive.I am beginning to suspect that these apps are the “horseless carriages” of the AI era. They’re bad because they mimic old ways of building software that unnecessarily constrain the AI models they’re built with. To illustrate what I mean by that, I’ll start with an example of a badly designed AI app.The example Koomen gives is Gmail, where, hilariously, he has to type far more in a prompt to get the right email response than the amount he would have to type to simply send the email himself; he goes on to explain how a much more useful capability would be the ability to customize the system prompt.Read the whole thing; this is the takeaway:My core contention in this essay is this: when an LLM agent is acting on my behalf I should be allowed to teach it how to do that by editing the System Prompt. Does this mean I always want to write my own System Prompt from scratch? No. I’ve been using Gmail for twenty years; Gemini should be able to write a draft prompt for me using my emails as reference examples. I’d like to be able to see that prompt and edit it, though, because the way I write emails and the people correspond with change over time…In most AI apps, System Prompts should be written and maintained by users, not software developers or even domain experts hired by developers. Most AI apps should be agent builders, not agents.Koomen’s critique is directed at all software makers, who need to get out of the mindset of doing everything for the user, and shift to enabling users to systemically solve their own problems; it’s interesting he uses Gmail, however, because it speaks to the product problems I keep mentioning when it comes to Google in particular: the company has the best AI infrastructure, and arguably the best AI, but the product capabilities are seriously in question.That, though, makes the Search evolution that much more notable: the biggest tell of all that Google very much sees AI as a threat to their core business is that that is the one area the company really is desperately trying to figure out their AI product, and moving fast. The race is between incorporating their own AI into Search before someone else’s AI disrupts Search, and it’s one of the most compelling races I’ve ever watched.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Google I/O and the Coming AI BattlesDateMonday, May 15, 2023Google’s Search for the Sweet SpotDateThursday, October 5, 2017←2025.17: Where Will Apple Be in 2035?Intel Earnings, TSMC Earnings→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Google Earnings, Search and AI, Building AI ProductsMonday, April 28, 2025Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s Sharp Tech, we discussedApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past, and why Tim Cook is such a complicated figure at this critical point for Apple’s future (John Gruber and I had a similar discussion onFriday’s Dithering).On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s earnings power is holding up well, even as the internet giant spends record sums on artificial intelligence in the midst of global economic turbulence. Parent company Alphabet reported operating income of $30.6 billion for the first quarter on Thursday — solidly beating Wall Street’s forecast of $28.7 billion. Revenue rose across the company’s business units but was largely in line with analyst estimates. Capital expenditures reached a record $17.2 billion in the quarter.The stronger bottom line showed Google’s resilience in a quarter that was marked by fears of an impending trade war and the effect that could have on the global economy. Alphabet’s share price rose 5% in after-hours trading following the results. But those worries remain. Google doesn’t issue financial projections with its quarterly reports, which leaves it unclear just how its business was affected by President Trump’s April 2 announcement of high tariffs, and the turbulence that has followed amid the ever-changing status of those tariffs. On the company’s earnings call Thursday, Google’s Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said it is “too early to comment” on trends for the current quarter.This was a pretty interesting quarter for Google, and I’m not sure how I feel; my takes on the company have been pretty contrarian, including last quarter: investors didn’t like the big capex numbers that were announced — $75 billion for 2025, which management reiterated on this call — but I saw clear evidence that it was justified in the Google Cloud numbers. Those were disappointing on the top line, but if you looked under the surface, the fact that margin expanded strongly suggested that Google Cloud was in fact capacity constrained, as management said. And, given that Google Cloud is — asI discussed in my interview with CEO Thomas Kurian— the company’s purest AI play, thanks to the fact it is not disruptive to their core business, directly leverages Google’s unmatched strengths in infrastructure and research, and not dependent on Google’s ossified product organization, more capex to catch up to pent-up demand is a good thing.Given all that, I was a little disappointed in Google Cloud this quarter. Here is the table I keep going back to:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Growth was even slower this quarter than last quarter, and margins didn’t expand. What makes this more concerning is that this is the first quarter with Google Workspace’s latest price raise; this is from Google CFO Anat Ashkenazi onthe company’s earnings call:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 28% to $12.3 billion in the first quarter, reflecting growth in GCP across core and AI products at a rate that was much higher than Cloud’s overall revenue growth rate. Growth in Google Workspace was primarily driven by an increase in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud operating income increased to $2.2 billion and operating margin increased from 9.4% to 17.8%.Ashkenazi went on to note that Cloud was still supply constrained:Second in Cloud, we’re in a tight demand supply environment and given that revenues are correlated with the timing of deployment of new capacity, we could see variability in cloud revenue growth rates depending on capacity deployment each quarter. We expect relatively higher capacity deployment towards the end of 2025.It would be nice to have some visibility into those AI numbers that are growing faster than Google Cloud’s overall revenue, or have an idea of what percentage of Google Cloud comes from Workspace; for now I’m going to eagerly await whatever quarter it is where capacity is less of a question, while casting a bit of a side-eye at those Workspace price increases and to what extent they are responsible for margin expansion.Search and AIThe other interesting question — the eternally interesting question, when it comes to Google — is Search and AI.First, ChatGPTmay have 800 million users— Gemini’s 35 million users is a rounding error comparatively speaking (although that is a DAU number; the equivalent ChatGPT number is surely much smaller than the total user number that is floating around) — but in fact the most-used generative AI product in the world is Google Search’s AI Overviews. Pichai said in his opening statement:And for Search, we see it growing the number and types of questions we can answer. We are already seeing this with AI Overviews, which now has more than 1.5 billion users every month. Nearly a year after we launched AI Overviews in the US, we continue to see that usage growth is increasing as people learn that Search is more useful for more of their queries.So we are leaning in heavily here, continuing to roll the feature out to new countries to more users and to more queries. Building on the positive feedback for AI Overviews, in March we released AI Mode, an experiment in labs. It expands what AI Overviews can do with more advanced reasoning, thinking, and multimodal capabilities to help with questions that need further exploration and comparisons. On average, AI Mode queries are twice as long as traditional Search queries. We’re getting really positive feedback from early users about its design, fast response time, and ability to understand complex nuanced questions. We also continue to see significant growth in multimodal queries.An analyst asked Pichai how to think about these three experiences (Gemini, AI Overview, and AI Mode):On AI-powered Search and how do we see our consumer experience. Look I do think Search and Gemini obviously will be two distinct efforts, right? I think there are obviously some areas of overlap, but there are also like expose very, very different use cases. And so for example, in Gemini, we see people iteratively coding and going much deeper on a coding workflow as an example. So I think both will be around. Within Search we think of AI Overviews scaling up and working for our entire user base, but an AI Mode is the tip of the tree for us pushing forward on an AI forward experience. There will be things which we discover there which will make sense in the context of AI Overviews. So I think will flow through to our user base. But you almost want to think of what are the most advanced 1 million people using Search for, the most advanced 10 million people and then how do 1.5 billion people use Search for. And we want to innovate and so I think this allows us to do that. But the true north through all of this is user feedback, user satisfaction, user experience. And so that will determine where this all works out in the future.Icontinue to thinkthat Google’s general de-prioritization of Gemini relative to search makes sense; along the same lines I also like how the company is thinking about AI Mode and figuring out ways to make generative AI more useful within the Search experience. No, this isn’t very sexy or “disruptive”, but the truth is that incumbents with huge cash cows can often do more damage to themselves trying to avoid disruption, when sometimes the best you can do is ride that cash cow and leverage its advantages — like being the default experience for billions of users — as long as you can.The other interesting AI implication for Google is what it is doing for their revenue; last week Eric Seufert and I talked aboutthe inescapable power of Google and Meta’s blackbox advertising, where you give up control and give into the algorithm; management spent a lot of time on this call talking about exactly that. This is from CBO Philipp Schindler’s prepared remarks:More businesses, big and small, are adopting AI-powered campaigns. And the deployment of AI across our Ads business is driving results for our customers and for our business. Throughout 2024, we launched several features that leverage LLMs to enhance advertiser value, and we’re seeing this work pay off. The combination of these launches now allows us to match Ads to more relevant Search queries, and this helps advertisers reach customers in searches where we would not previously have shown their Ads.Focusing on our customers, we continue to solve advertisers’ pain points and find opportunities to help them create, distribute, and measure more performant Ads, infusing AI at every step of the marketing process. On Audience Insights, we released new asset audience recommendations, which tell businesses the themes that resonate most with their top audiences. On Creators, advertisers can now generate a broader variety of lifestyle imagery customized to their business to better engage their customers and use them across PMax, Demand Gen, Display, and App campaigns. Additionally, in PMax, advertisers can automatically source images from their landing pages and crop them, increasing the variety of their assets. On Media Buying, advertisers continue to see how AI powered campaigns help them find new customers. In Demand Gen, advertisers can more precisely manage ad placements across YouTube, Gmail, Discover, and Google Display Network globally and understand which assets work best at a channel level.Thanks to dozens of AI part improvements launched in 2024, businesses using Demand Gen now see an average 26% year-on-year increase in conversions per dollar spent for goals like purchases and leads. And when using Demand Gen with product feed, on average, they see more than double the conversion per dollar spent year-over-year.All of these puts and takes on Google Search come together in this chart:This chart is roughly similar to a chart I’ve long referenced in Meta earnings; in that case I track the change in ad revenue, DAU, price-per-ad, and ad impression growth, and one of the important takeaways is that it’s actually good when prices-per-ad are falling while ad impressions rise, because that is creating the conditions for future growth (i.e. when Stories or Reels increased inventory).Google’s disclosures are not as substantial anymore — and annoyingly, recent 10-Ks only report aggregate numbers for the year, so this chart is limited to three 10-Qs a year — but it’s still a useful thing to look at. Specifically, it’s notable the extent to which Google Properties ad revenue is, particularly since 2023, driven by increased prices, not increased clicks. Again, those two metrics should move in opposition to one another, which they are; the problem is that they are moving in the wrong direction if the question is about the long-term trajectory of the Search business. AI is helping Google monetize better; it also may be limiting Google’s opportunities to do just that, at least for now.Building AI ProductsPete Koomen wrote an excellent Article last week calledAI Horseless Carriages:I noticed something interesting the other day: I enjoy using AI to build software more than I enjoy using most AI applications — software built with AI. When I use AI to build software I feel like I can create almost anything I can imagine very quickly. AI feels like a power tool. It’s a lot of fun. Many AI apps don’t feel like that. Their AI features feel tacked-on and useless, even counter-productive.I am beginning to suspect that these apps are the “horseless carriages” of the AI era. They’re bad because they mimic old ways of building software that unnecessarily constrain the AI models they’re built with. To illustrate what I mean by that, I’ll start with an example of a badly designed AI app.The example Koomen gives is Gmail, where, hilariously, he has to type far more in a prompt to get the right email response than the amount he would have to type to simply send the email himself; he goes on to explain how a much more useful capability would be the ability to customize the system prompt.Read the whole thing; this is the takeaway:My core contention in this essay is this: when an LLM agent is acting on my behalf I should be allowed to teach it how to do that by editing the System Prompt. Does this mean I always want to write my own System Prompt from scratch? No. I’ve been using Gmail for twenty years; Gemini should be able to write a draft prompt for me using my emails as reference examples. I’d like to be able to see that prompt and edit it, though, because the way I write emails and the people correspond with change over time…In most AI apps, System Prompts should be written and maintained by users, not software developers or even domain experts hired by developers. Most AI apps should be agent builders, not agents.Koomen’s critique is directed at all software makers, who need to get out of the mindset of doing everything for the user, and shift to enabling users to systemically solve their own problems; it’s interesting he uses Gmail, however, because it speaks to the product problems I keep mentioning when it comes to Google in particular: the company has the best AI infrastructure, and arguably the best AI, but the product capabilities are seriously in question.That, though, makes the Search evolution that much more notable: the biggest tell of all that Google very much sees AI as a threat to their core business is that that is the one area the company really is desperately trying to figure out their AI product, and moving fast. The race is between incorporating their own AI into Search before someone else’s AI disrupts Search, and it’s one of the most compelling races I’ve ever watched.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.Related2025.18: Meta and Its Many AI PlansDateSaturday, May 3, 2025Google I/O and the Coming AI BattlesDateMonday, May 15, 2023Google’s Search for the Sweet SpotDateThursday, October 5, 2017←2025.17: Where Will Apple Be in 2035?Intel Earnings, TSMC Earnings→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,OnThursday’s Sharp Tech, we discussedApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past, and why Tim Cook is such a complicated figure at this critical point for Apple’s future (John Gruber and I had a similar discussion onFriday’s Dithering).On to the Update:Google EarningsFrom theWall Street Journal:Google’s earnings power is holding up well, even as the internet giant spends record sums on artificial intelligence in the midst of global economic turbulence. Parent company Alphabet reported operating income of $30.6 billion for the first quarter on Thursday — solidly beating Wall Street’s forecast of $28.7 billion. Revenue rose across the company’s business units but was largely in line with analyst estimates. Capital expenditures reached a record $17.2 billion in the quarter.The stronger bottom line showed Google’s resilience in a quarter that was marked by fears of an impending trade war and the effect that could have on the global economy. Alphabet’s share price rose 5% in after-hours trading following the results. But those worries remain. Google doesn’t issue financial projections with its quarterly reports, which leaves it unclear just how its business was affected by President Trump’s April 2 announcement of high tariffs, and the turbulence that has followed amid the ever-changing status of those tariffs. On the company’s earnings call Thursday, Google’s Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said it is “too early to comment” on trends for the current quarter.This was a pretty interesting quarter for Google, and I’m not sure how I feel; my takes on the company have been pretty contrarian, including last quarter: investors didn’t like the big capex numbers that were announced — $75 billion for 2025, which management reiterated on this call — but I saw clear evidence that it was justified in the Google Cloud numbers. Those were disappointing on the top line, but if you looked under the surface, the fact that margin expanded strongly suggested that Google Cloud was in fact capacity constrained, as management said. And, given that Google Cloud is — asI discussed in my interview with CEO Thomas Kurian— the company’s purest AI play, thanks to the fact it is not disruptive to their core business, directly leverages Google’s unmatched strengths in infrastructure and research, and not dependent on Google’s ossified product organization, more capex to catch up to pent-up demand is a good thing.Given all that, I was a little disappointed in Google Cloud this quarter. Here is the table I keep going back to:Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718%Growth was even slower this quarter than last quarter, and margins didn’t expand. What makes this more concerning is that this is the first quarter with Google Workspace’s latest price raise; this is from Google CFO Anat Ashkenazi onthe company’s earnings call:Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 28% to $12.3 billion in the first quarter, reflecting growth in GCP across core and AI products at a rate that was much higher than Cloud’s overall revenue growth rate. Growth in Google Workspace was primarily driven by an increase in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud operating income increased to $2.2 billion and operating margin increased from 9.4% to 17.8%.Ashkenazi went on to note that Cloud was still supply constrained:Second in Cloud, we’re in a tight demand supply environment and given that revenues are correlated with the timing of deployment of new capacity, we could see variability in cloud revenue growth rates depending on capacity deployment each quarter. We expect relatively higher capacity deployment towards the end of 2025.It would be nice to have some visibility into those AI numbers that are growing faster than Google Cloud’s overall revenue, or have an idea of what percentage of Google Cloud comes from Workspace; for now I’m going to eagerly await whatever quarter it is where capacity is less of a question, while casting a bit of a side-eye at those Workspace price increases and to what extent they are responsible for margin expansion.Search and AIThe other interesting question — the eternally interesting question, when it comes to Google — is Search and AI.First, ChatGPTmay have 800 million users— Gemini’s 35 million users is a rounding error comparatively speaking (although that is a DAU number; the equivalent ChatGPT number is surely much smaller than the total user number that is floating around) — but in fact the most-used generative AI product in the world is Google Search’s AI Overviews. Pichai said in his opening statement:And for Search, we see it growing the number and types of questions we can answer. We are already seeing this with AI Overviews, which now has more than 1.5 billion users every month. Nearly a year after we launched AI Overviews in the US, we continue to see that usage growth is increasing as people learn that Search is more useful for more of their queries.So we are leaning in heavily here, continuing to roll the feature out to new countries to more users and to more queries. Building on the positive feedback for AI Overviews, in March we released AI Mode, an experiment in labs. It expands what AI Overviews can do with more advanced reasoning, thinking, and multimodal capabilities to help with questions that need further exploration and comparisons. On average, AI Mode queries are twice as long as traditional Search queries. We’re getting really positive feedback from early users about its design, fast response time, and ability to understand complex nuanced questions. We also continue to see significant growth in multimodal queries.An analyst asked Pichai how to think about these three experiences (Gemini, AI Overview, and AI Mode):On AI-powered Search and how do we see our consumer experience. Look I do think Search and Gemini obviously will be two distinct efforts, right? I think there are obviously some areas of overlap, but there are also like expose very, very different use cases. And so for example, in Gemini, we see people iteratively coding and going much deeper on a coding workflow as an example. So I think both will be around. Within Search we think of AI Overviews scaling up and working for our entire user base, but an AI Mode is the tip of the tree for us pushing forward on an AI forward experience. There will be things which we discover there which will make sense in the context of AI Overviews. So I think will flow through to our user base. But you almost want to think of what are the most advanced 1 million people using Search for, the most advanced 10 million people and then how do 1.5 billion people use Search for. And we want to innovate and so I think this allows us to do that. But the true north through all of this is user feedback, user satisfaction, user experience. And so that will determine where this all works out in the future.Icontinue to thinkthat Google’s general de-prioritization of Gemini relative to search makes sense; along the same lines I also like how the company is thinking about AI Mode and figuring out ways to make generative AI more useful within the Search experience. No, this isn’t very sexy or “disruptive”, but the truth is that incumbents with huge cash cows can often do more damage to themselves trying to avoid disruption, when sometimes the best you can do is ride that cash cow and leverage its advantages — like being the default experience for billions of users — as long as you can.The other interesting AI implication for Google is what it is doing for their revenue; last week Eric Seufert and I talked aboutthe inescapable power of Google and Meta’s blackbox advertising, where you give up control and give into the algorithm; management spent a lot of time on this call talking about exactly that. This is from CBO Philipp Schindler’s prepared remarks:More businesses, big and small, are adopting AI-powered campaigns. And the deployment of AI across our Ads business is driving results for our customers and for our business. Throughout 2024, we launched several features that leverage LLMs to enhance advertiser value, and we’re seeing this work pay off. The combination of these launches now allows us to match Ads to more relevant Search queries, and this helps advertisers reach customers in searches where we would not previously have shown their Ads.Focusing on our customers, we continue to solve advertisers’ pain points and find opportunities to help them create, distribute, and measure more performant Ads, infusing AI at every step of the marketing process. On Audience Insights, we released new asset audience recommendations, which tell businesses the themes that resonate most with their top audiences. On Creators, advertisers can now generate a broader variety of lifestyle imagery customized to their business to better engage their customers and use them across PMax, Demand Gen, Display, and App campaigns. Additionally, in PMax, advertisers can automatically source images from their landing pages and crop them, increasing the variety of their assets. On Media Buying, advertisers continue to see how AI powered campaigns help them find new customers. In Demand Gen, advertisers can more precisely manage ad placements across YouTube, Gmail, Discover, and Google Display Network globally and understand which assets work best at a channel level.Thanks to dozens of AI part improvements launched in 2024, businesses using Demand Gen now see an average 26% year-on-year increase in conversions per dollar spent for goals like purchases and leads. And when using Demand Gen with product feed, on average, they see more than double the conversion per dollar spent year-over-year.All of these puts and takes on Google Search come together in this chart:This chart is roughly similar to a chart I’ve long referenced in Meta earnings; in that case I track the change in ad revenue, DAU, price-per-ad, and ad impression growth, and one of the important takeaways is that it’s actually good when prices-per-ad are falling while ad impressions rise, because that is creating the conditions for future growth (i.e. when Stories or Reels increased inventory).Google’s disclosures are not as substantial anymore — and annoyingly, recent 10-Ks only report aggregate numbers for the year, so this chart is limited to three 10-Qs a year — but it’s still a useful thing to look at. Specifically, it’s notable the extent to which Google Properties ad revenue is, particularly since 2023, driven by increased prices, not increased clicks. Again, those two metrics should move in opposition to one another, which they are; the problem is that they are moving in the wrong direction if the question is about the long-term trajectory of the Search business. AI is helping Google monetize better; it also may be limiting Google’s opportunities to do just that, at least for now.Building AI ProductsPete Koomen wrote an excellent Article last week calledAI Horseless Carriages:I noticed something interesting the other day: I enjoy using AI to build software more than I enjoy using most AI applications — software built with AI. When I use AI to build software I feel like I can create almost anything I can imagine very quickly. AI feels like a power tool. It’s a lot of fun. Many AI apps don’t feel like that. Their AI features feel tacked-on and useless, even counter-productive.I am beginning to suspect that these apps are the “horseless carriages” of the AI era. They’re bad because they mimic old ways of building software that unnecessarily constrain the AI models they’re built with. To illustrate what I mean by that, I’ll start with an example of a badly designed AI app.The example Koomen gives is Gmail, where, hilariously, he has to type far more in a prompt to get the right email response than the amount he would have to type to simply send the email himself; he goes on to explain how a much more useful capability would be the ability to customize the system prompt.Read the whole thing; this is the takeaway:My core contention in this essay is this: when an LLM agent is acting on my behalf I should be allowed to teach it how to do that by editing the System Prompt. Does this mean I always want to write my own System Prompt from scratch? No. I’ve been using Gmail for twenty years; Gemini should be able to write a draft prompt for me using my emails as reference examples. I’d like to be able to see that prompt and edit it, though, because the way I write emails and the people correspond with change over time…In most AI apps, System Prompts should be written and maintained by users, not software developers or even domain experts hired by developers. Most AI apps should be agent builders, not agents.Koomen’s critique is directed at all software makers, who need to get out of the mindset of doing everything for the user, and shift to enabling users to systemically solve their own problems; it’s interesting he uses Gmail, however, because it speaks to the product problems I keep mentioning when it comes to Google in particular: the company has the best AI infrastructure, and arguably the best AI, but the product capabilities are seriously in question.That, though, makes the Search evolution that much more notable: the biggest tell of all that Google very much sees AI as a threat to their core business is that that is the one area the company really is desperately trying to figure out their AI product, and moving fast. The race is between incorporating their own AI into Search before someone else’s AI disrupts Search, and it’s one of the most compelling races I’ve ever watched.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email OnThursday’s Sharp Tech, we discussedApple and the Ghosts of Companies Past, and why Tim Cook is such a complicated figure at this critical point for Apple’s future (John Gruber and I had a similar discussion onFriday’s Dithering). Google’s earnings power is holding up well, even as the internet giant spends record sums on artificial intelligence in the midst of global economic turbulence. Parent company Alphabet reported operating income of $30.6 billion for the first quarter on Thursday — solidly beating Wall Street’s forecast of $28.7 billion. Revenue rose across the company’s business units but was largely in line with analyst estimates. Capital expenditures reached a record $17.2 billion in the quarter. The stronger bottom line showed Google’s resilience in a quarter that was marked by fears of an impending trade war and the effect that could have on the global economy. Alphabet’s share price rose 5% in after-hours trading following the results. But those worries remain. Google doesn’t issue financial projections with its quarterly reports, which leaves it unclear just how its business was affected by President Trump’s April 2 announcement of high tariffs, and the turbulence that has followed amid the ever-changing status of those tariffs. On the company’s earnings call Thursday, Google’s Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler said it is “too early to comment” on trends for the current quarter. This was a pretty interesting quarter for Google, and I’m not sure how I feel; my takes on the company have been pretty contrarian, including last quarter: investors didn’t like the big capex numbers that were announced — $75 billion for 2025, which management reiterated on this call — but I saw clear evidence that it was justified in the Google Cloud numbers. Those were disappointing on the top line, but if you looked under the surface, the fact that margin expanded strongly suggested that Google Cloud was in fact capacity constrained, as management said. And, given that Google Cloud is — asI discussed in my interview with CEO Thomas Kurian— the company’s purest AI play, thanks to the fact it is not disruptive to their core business, directly leverages Google’s unmatched strengths in infrastructure and research, and not dependent on Google’s ossified product organization, more capex to catch up to pent-up demand is a good thing. Google CloudRevenueGrowthLossMarginQ4 2019$2,614$(1,194)-46%Q1 2020$2,777$(1,730)-62%Q2 2020$3,007$(1,426)-47%Q3 2020$3,444$(1,208)-35%Q4 2020$3,83147%$(1,243)-32%Q1 2021$4,04746%$(974)-24%Q2 2021$4,62854%$(591)-13%Q3 2021$4,99045%$(644)-13%Q4 2021$5,54145%$(890)-16%Q1 2022$5,82144%$(931)-16%Q2 2022$6,27636%$(858)-14%Q3 2022$6,86838%$(699)-10%Q4 2022$7,31532%$(186)-3%Q1 2023$7,45428%$1913%Q2 2023$8,03128%$3955%Q3 2023$8,41122%$2663%Q4 2023$9,19226%$8649%Q1 2024$9,57428%$9009%Q2 2024$10,34729%$1,17211%Q3 2024$11,35335%$1,94717%Q4 2024$11,95530%$2,09318%Q1 2025$12,26028%$2,17718% Growth was even slower this quarter than last quarter, and margins didn’t expand. What makes this more concerning is that this is the first quarter with Google Workspace’s latest price raise; this is from Google CFO Anat Ashkenazi onthe company’s earnings call: Turning to the Google Cloud segment, which continued to deliver very strong results this quarter. Revenue increased by 28% to $12.3 billion in the first quarter, reflecting growth in GCP across core and AI products at a rate that was much higher than Cloud’s overall revenue growth rate. Growth in Google Workspace was primarily driven by an increase in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud operating income increased to $2.2 billion and operating margin increased from 9.4% to 17.8%. Second in Cloud, we’re in a tight demand supply environment and given that revenues are correlated with the timing of deployment of new capacity, we could see variability in cloud revenue growth rates depending on capacity deployment each quarter. We expect relatively higher capacity deployment towards the end of 2025. It would be nice to have some visibility into those AI numbers that are growing faster than Google Cloud’s overall revenue, or have an idea of what percentage of Google Cloud comes from Workspace; for now I’m going to eagerly await whatever quarter it is where capacity is less of a question, while casting a bit of a side-eye at those Workspace price increases and to what extent they are responsible for margin expansion. First, ChatGPTmay have 800 million users— Gemini’s 35 million users is a rounding error comparatively speaking (although that is a DAU number; the equivalent ChatGPT number is surely much smaller than the total user number that is floating around) — but in fact the most-used generative AI product in the world is Google Search’s AI Overviews. Pichai said in his opening statement: And for Search, we see it growing the number and types of questions we can answer. We are already seeing this with AI Overviews, which now has more than 1.5 billion users every month. Nearly a year after we launched AI Overviews in the US, we continue to see that usage growth is increasing as people learn that Search is more useful for more of their queries. So we are leaning in heavily here, continuing to roll the feature out to new countries to more users and to more queries. Building on the positive feedback for AI Overviews, in March we released AI Mode, an experiment in labs. It expands what AI Overviews can do with more advanced reasoning, thinking, and multimodal capabilities to help with questions that need further exploration and comparisons. On average, AI Mode queries are twice as long as traditional Search queries. We’re getting really positive feedback from early users about its design, fast response time, and ability to understand complex nuanced questions. We also continue to see significant growth in multimodal queries. On AI-powered Search and how do we see our consumer experience. Look I do think Search and Gemini obviously will be two distinct efforts, right? I think there are obviously some areas of overlap, but there are also like expose very, very different use cases. And so for example, in Gemini, we see people iteratively coding and going much deeper on a coding workflow as an example. So I think both will be around. Within Search we think of AI Overviews scaling up and working for our entire user base, but an AI Mode is the tip of the tree for us pushing forward on an AI forward experience. There will be things which we discover there which will make sense in the context of AI Overviews. So I think will flow through to our user base. But you almost want to think of what are the most advanced 1 million people using Search for, the most advanced 10 million people and then how do 1.5 billion people use Search for. And we want to innovate and so I think this allows us to do that. But the true north through all of this is user feedback, user satisfaction, user experience. And so that will determine where this all works out in the future. Icontinue to thinkthat Google’s general de-prioritization of Gemini relative to search makes sense; along the same lines I also like how the company is thinking about AI Mode and figuring out ways to make generative AI more useful within the Search experience. No, this isn’t very sexy or “disruptive”, but the truth is that incumbents with huge cash cows can often do more damage to themselves trying to avoid disruption, when sometimes the best you can do is ride that cash cow and leverage its advantages — like being the default experience for billions of users — as long as you can. The other interesting AI implication for Google is what it is doing for their revenue; last week Eric Seufert and I talked aboutthe inescapable power of Google and Meta’s blackbox advertising, where you give up control and give into the algorithm; management spent a lot of time on this call talking about exactly that. This is from CBO Philipp Schindler’s prepared remarks: More businesses, big and small, are adopting AI-powered campaigns. And the deployment of AI across our Ads business is driving results for our customers and for our business. Throughout 2024, we launched several features that leverage LLMs to enhance advertiser value, and we’re seeing this work pay off. The combination of these launches now allows us to match Ads to more relevant Search queries, and this helps advertisers reach customers in searches where we would not previously have shown their Ads. Focusing on our customers, we continue to solve advertisers’ pain points and find opportunities to help them create, distribute, and measure more performant Ads, infusing AI at every step of the marketing process. On Audience Insights, we released new asset audience recommendations, which tell businesses the themes that resonate most with their top audiences. On Creators, advertisers can now generate a broader variety of lifestyle imagery customized to their business to better engage their customers and use them across PMax, Demand Gen, Display, and App campaigns. Additionally, in PMax, advertisers can automatically source images from their landing pages and crop them, increasing the variety of their assets. On Media Buying, advertisers continue to see how AI powered campaigns help them find new customers. In Demand Gen, advertisers can more precisely manage ad placements across YouTube, Gmail, Discover, and Google Display Network globally and understand which assets work best at a channel level. Thanks to dozens of AI part improvements launched in 2024, businesses using Demand Gen now see an average 26% year-on-year increase in conversions per dollar spent for goals like purchases and leads. And when using Demand Gen with product feed, on average, they see more than double the conversion per dollar spent year-over-year. This chart is roughly similar to a chart I’ve long referenced in Meta earnings; in that case I track the change in ad revenue, DAU, price-per-ad, and ad impression growth, and one of the important takeaways is that it’s actually good when prices-per-ad are falling while ad impressions rise, because that is creating the conditions for future growth (i.e. when Stories or Reels increased inventory). Google’s disclosures are not as substantial anymore — and annoyingly, recent 10-Ks only report aggregate numbers for the year, so this chart is limited to three 10-Qs a year — but it’s still a useful thing to look at. Specifically, it’s notable the extent to which Google Properties ad revenue is, particularly since 2023, driven by increased prices, not increased clicks. Again, those two metrics should move in opposition to one another, which they are; the problem is that they are moving in the wrong direction if the question is about the long-term trajectory of the Search business. AI is helping Google monetize better; it also may be limiting Google’s opportunities to do just that, at least for now. I noticed something interesting the other day: I enjoy using AI to build software more than I enjoy using most AI applications — software built with AI. When I use AI to build software I feel like I can create almost anything I can imagine very quickly. AI feels like a power tool. It’s a lot of fun. Many AI apps don’t feel like that. Their AI features feel tacked-on and useless, even counter-productive. I am beginning to suspect that these apps are the “horseless carriages” of the AI era. They’re bad because they mimic old ways of building software that unnecessarily constrain the AI models they’re built with. To illustrate what I mean by that, I’ll start with an example of a badly designed AI app. The example Koomen gives is Gmail, where, hilariously, he has to type far more in a prompt to get the right email response than the amount he would have to type to simply send the email himself; he goes on to explain how a much more useful capability would be the ability to customize the system prompt.Read the whole thing; this is the takeaway: My core contention in this essay is this: when an LLM agent is acting on my behalf I should be allowed to teach it how to do that by editing the System Prompt. Does this mean I always want to write my own System Prompt from scratch? No. I’ve been using Gmail for twenty years; Gemini should be able to write a draft prompt for me using my emails as reference examples. I’d like to be able to see that prompt and edit it, though, because the way I write emails and the people correspond with change over time… Koomen’s critique is directed at all software makers, who need to get out of the mindset of doing everything for the user, and shift to enabling users to systemically solve their own problems; it’s interesting he uses Gmail, however, because it speaks to the product problems I keep mentioning when it comes to Google in particular: the company has the best AI infrastructure, and arguably the best AI, but the product capabilities are seriously in question. That, though, makes the Search evolution that much more notable: the biggest tell of all that Google very much sees AI as a threat to their core business is that that is the one area the company really is desperately trying to figure out their AI product, and moving fast. The race is between incorporating their own AI into Search before someone else’s AI disrupts Search, and it’s one of the most compelling races I’ve ever watched. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025