# [PODCAST] Planet Money Live: Two Truths and a Lie

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/06/26/1184370720/live-two-truths-lie-big-sky-montana
**Atlas ID**: 229498
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.847388

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Two Truths and a Lie, a Planet Money gameshow  : Planet MoneyThe shocks of the pandemic economy gave us a bunch of enormous natural experiments, which helped to prove or disprove conventional economic thinking.Take, for example, thebullwhip effect, the idea that the further away from the customer you are in the supply chain, the more volatile your orders are likely to be. This theory played out at an enormous scale, in the pandemic. Consumers and companies overreacted to the risk of shortages by ordering more products and hoarding them, causing massive shifts in the supply chain – just like the theory says.And the pandemic gave us a lot of natural experiments like this. So, on this special live edition of Planet Money, we looked for other big economic lessons from the past three years, and we took this information and turned it into... a gameshow! It's Two Truths and a Lie: Econ Edition. We get into questions about the workforce and labor market during the pandemic, and how it affected how economists view the world.This episode was hosted by Mary Childs. It was produced by Dave Blanchard, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Josh Newell with help from Robert Rodriguez. Original music by Jesse Perlstein.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkPlanet Money Live: Two Truths and a LieJune 28, 20234:51 PM ETByMary Childs,Jess Jiang,Dave BlanchardPlanet Money Live: Two Truths and a LieListen·23:3923:39TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1184370720/1198959384" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageThe Planet Money team held a special evening of music, costumes, and econ at the Warren Miller Performing Arts Center in Big Sky, Montana.Josh Newell/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJosh Newell/NPRThe Planet Money team held a special evening of music, costumes, and econ at the Warren Miller Performing Arts Center in Big Sky, Montana.Josh Newell/NPRThe shocks of the pandemic economy gave us a bunch of enormous natural experiments, which helped to prove or disprove conventional economic thinking.Take, for example, thebullwhip effect, the idea that the further away from the customer you are in the supply chain, the more volatile your orders are likely to be.A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJoanna Pawlowska/NPRThis theory played out at an enormous scale, in the pandemic. Consumers and companies overreacted to the risk of shortages by ordering more products and hoarding them, causing massive shifts in the supply chain – just like the theory says.And the pandemic gave us a lot of natural experiments like this. So, on this special live edition of Planet Money, we looked for other big economic lessons from the past three years, and we took this information and turned it into... a gameshow! It's Two Truths and a Lie: Econ Edition. We get into questions about the workforce and labor market during the pandemic, and how it affected how economists view the world.Sponsor MessageAdditional reading, from Lise Vesterlund:"Gender Differences in Accepting and Receiving Requests for Tasks with Low Promotability""Why Women Volunteer for Tasks That Don't Lead to Promotions"The No Club...from Pavlina Tcherneva:"The Job Guarantee and Economic Democracy""A Job Guarantee Costs Far Less Than Unemployment"The Case for a Job Guarantee...and from Gbenga Ajilore:"Biden's big bet on place-based industrial policy""Place-Based Policy: An Essay in Two Parts""Place-conscious federal policies to reduce regional economic disparities in the United States"This episode was hosted by Mary Childs. It was produced by Dave Blanchard, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Josh Newell with help from Robert Rodriguez. Original music by Jesse Perlstein.Planet MoneyWe Buy a Superhero 8: Micro-Face: The MusicalHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Rubbery Bounce"Planet MoneyFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Planet Money Live: Two Truths and a LieListen·23:3923:39TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1184370720/1198959384" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Planet Money Live: Two Truths and a LieListen·23:3923:39TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1184370720/1198959384" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1184370720/1198959384" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageThe Planet Money team held a special evening of music, costumes, and econ at the Warren Miller Performing Arts Center in Big Sky, Montana.Josh Newell/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJosh Newell/NPRThe Planet Money team held a special evening of music, costumes, and econ at the Warren Miller Performing Arts Center in Big Sky, Montana.Josh Newell/NPRThe shocks of the pandemic economy gave us a bunch of enormous natural experiments, which helped to prove or disprove conventional economic thinking.Take, for example, thebullwhip effect, the idea that the further away from the customer you are in the supply chain, the more volatile your orders are likely to be.A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJoanna Pawlowska/NPRThis theory played out at an enormous scale, in the pandemic. Consumers and companies overreacted to the risk of shortages by ordering more products and hoarding them, causing massive shifts in the supply chain – just like the theory says.And the pandemic gave us a lot of natural experiments like this. So, on this special live edition of Planet Money, we looked for other big economic lessons from the past three years, and we took this information and turned it into... a gameshow! It's Two Truths and a Lie: Econ Edition. We get into questions about the workforce and labor market during the pandemic, and how it affected how economists view the world.Sponsor MessageAdditional reading, from Lise Vesterlund:"Gender Differences in Accepting and Receiving Requests for Tasks with Low Promotability""Why Women Volunteer for Tasks That Don't Lead to Promotions"The No Club...from Pavlina Tcherneva:"The Job Guarantee and Economic Democracy""A Job Guarantee Costs Far Less Than Unemployment"The Case for a Job Guarantee...and from Gbenga Ajilore:"Biden's big bet on place-based industrial policy""Place-Based Policy: An Essay in Two Parts""Place-conscious federal policies to reduce regional economic disparities in the United States"This episode was hosted by Mary Childs. It was produced by Dave Blanchard, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Josh Newell with help from Robert Rodriguez. Original music by Jesse Perlstein.Planet MoneyWe Buy a Superhero 8: Micro-Face: The MusicalHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: Universal Production Music - "Rubbery Bounce" Enlarge this imageThe Planet Money team held a special evening of music, costumes, and econ at the Warren Miller Performing Arts Center in Big Sky, Montana.Josh Newell/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJosh Newell/NPRThe Planet Money team held a special evening of music, costumes, and econ at the Warren Miller Performing Arts Center in Big Sky, Montana.Josh Newell/NPR A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJoanna Pawlowska/NPR A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide captiontoggle captionJoanna Pawlowska/NPR A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide captiontoggle caption A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide caption A bullwhip effect can cause shockwaves across a supply chain. Consumers may make a small change in their habits, and that can mean a lot of volatility for the brewers at the other end of the supply chain.Joanna Pawlowska/NPRhide caption This theory played out at an enormous scale, in the pandemic. Consumers and companies overreacted to the risk of shortages by ordering more products and hoarding them, causing massive shifts in the supply chain – just like the theory says. And the pandemic gave us a lot of natural experiments like this. So, on this special live edition of Planet Money, we looked for other big economic lessons from the past three years, and we took this information and turned it into... a gameshow! It's Two Truths and a Lie: Econ Edition. We get into questions about the workforce and labor market during the pandemic, and how it affected how economists view the world. This episode was hosted by Mary Childs. It was produced by Dave Blanchard, and edited by Jess Jiang. It was engineered by Josh Newell with help from Robert Rodriguez. Original music by Jesse Perlstein. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra