# [PODCAST] Mike The Mover vs. The Furniture Police

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/06/14/1182214943/regulatory-capture-moving-seattle-washington-furniture
**Atlas ID**: 229499
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.847541

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Washington's furniture moving fight : Planet MoneyIn 1978, a young man named Mike Shanks started a moving business in the north end of Seattle. It was just him and a truck — a pretty small operation. Things were going great. Then one afternoon, he was pulled over and cited for moving without a permit.The investigators who cited him were part of a special unit tasked with enforcing utilities and transportation regulations. Mike calls them thefurniture police. To legally be a mover, Mike needed a license. Otherwise, he'd face fines — and even potentially jail time. But soon he'd learn that getting that license was nearly impossible.Mike is the kind of guy who just can't back down from a fight. This run-in with the law would set him on a decade-long crusade against Washington's furniture moving industry, the furniture police, and the regulations themselves. It would turn him into a notorious semi-celebrity, bring him to courtrooms across the state, lead him to change his legal name to 'Mike The Mover,' and send him into the furthest depths of Washington's industrial regulations.The fight was personal. But it drew Mike into a much larger battle, too: An economic battle about regulation, and who it's supposed to protect.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkMike The Mover vs. The Furniture PoliceJune 23, 20236:15 PM ETByDylan Sloan,Nick Fountain,Willa Rubin,Sally HelmMike The Mover vs. The Furniture PoliceListen·25:3525:35TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1182214943/1198959402" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageNormally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionThe Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRNormally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRIn 1978, a young man named Mike Shanks started a moving business in the north end of Seattle. It was just him and a truck — a pretty small operation. Things were going great. Then one afternoon, he was pulled over and cited for moving without a permit.The investigators who cited him were part of a special unit tasked with enforcing utilities and transportation regulations. Mike calls them thefurniture police. To legally be a mover, Mike needed a license. Otherwise, he'd face fines — and even potentially jail time. But soon he'd learn that getting that license was nearly impossible.Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageMike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionSuperior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRMike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRMike is the kind of guy who just can't back down from a fight. This run-in with the law would set him on a decade-long crusade against Washington's furniture moving industry, the furniture police, and the regulations themselves. It would turn him into a notorious semi-celebrity, bring him to courtrooms across the state, lead him to change his legal name to 'Mike The Mover,' and send him into the furthest depths of Washington's industrial regulations.The fight was personal. But it drew Mike into a much larger battle, too: an economic battle about regulation, and who it's supposed to protect.This episode was hosted by Dylan Sloan and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Willa Rubin, edited by Sally Helm and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Will Chase helped with the research. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Jess Jiang is our acting executive producer.Planet MoneyEpisode 381: When Business Loves RegulationHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Spaghetti Horror," "Threes and Fours," and "Sugary Groove."Planet MoneyRegulationFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Mike The Mover vs. The Furniture PoliceListen·25:3525:35TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1182214943/1198959402" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Mike The Mover vs. The Furniture PoliceListen·25:3525:35TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1182214943/1198959402" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1182214943/1198959402" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageNormally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionThe Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRNormally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRIn 1978, a young man named Mike Shanks started a moving business in the north end of Seattle. It was just him and a truck — a pretty small operation. Things were going great. Then one afternoon, he was pulled over and cited for moving without a permit.The investigators who cited him were part of a special unit tasked with enforcing utilities and transportation regulations. Mike calls them thefurniture police. To legally be a mover, Mike needed a license. Otherwise, he'd face fines — and even potentially jail time. But soon he'd learn that getting that license was nearly impossible.Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageMike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionSuperior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRMike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRMike is the kind of guy who just can't back down from a fight. This run-in with the law would set him on a decade-long crusade against Washington's furniture moving industry, the furniture police, and the regulations themselves. It would turn him into a notorious semi-celebrity, bring him to courtrooms across the state, lead him to change his legal name to 'Mike The Mover,' and send him into the furthest depths of Washington's industrial regulations.The fight was personal. But it drew Mike into a much larger battle, too: an economic battle about regulation, and who it's supposed to protect.This episode was hosted by Dylan Sloan and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Willa Rubin, edited by Sally Helm and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Will Chase helped with the research. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Jess Jiang is our acting executive producer.Planet MoneyEpisode 381: When Business Loves RegulationHelp support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: "Spaghetti Horror," "Threes and Fours," and "Sugary Groove." Enlarge this imageNormally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionThe Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRNormally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPR Normally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionThe Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPR Normally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle caption Normally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide caption Normally, when you're running an illegal business, you don't advertise it in the phonebook. But nothing about Mike The Mover's story is normal.The Yellow Pages, Seattle 1997/Screenshot by NPRhide caption In 1978, a young man named Mike Shanks started a moving business in the north end of Seattle. It was just him and a truck — a pretty small operation. Things were going great. Then one afternoon, he was pulled over and cited for moving without a permit. The investigators who cited him were part of a special unit tasked with enforcing utilities and transportation regulations. Mike calls them thefurniture police. To legally be a mover, Mike needed a license. Otherwise, he'd face fines — and even potentially jail time. But soon he'd learn that getting that license was nearly impossible. Enlarge this imageMike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionSuperior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRMike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPR Mike The Mover's life is littered with court records.Superior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPRhide captiontoggle captionSuperior Court of Washington for King County Public Record/Screenshot by NPR Mike is the kind of guy who just can't back down from a fight. This run-in with the law would set him on a decade-long crusade against Washington's furniture moving industry, the furniture police, and the regulations themselves. It would turn him into a notorious semi-celebrity, bring him to courtrooms across the state, lead him to change his legal name to 'Mike The Mover,' and send him into the furthest depths of Washington's industrial regulations. This episode was hosted by Dylan Sloan and Nick Fountain. It was produced by Willa Rubin, edited by Sally Helm and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. Will Chase helped with the research. It was engineered by Maggie Luthar. Jess Jiang is our acting executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra