# [PODCAST] Never have I ever

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2023/11/08/1197954539/never-have-i-ever-luddites-obsolescence
**Atlas ID**: 229482
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.844746

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop We dare researchers to leave the ivory tower : Planet MoneyThe world of economics has these two different sides. One one side, there are the economists in their cozy armchairs and dusty libraries, high up in their ivory towers. On the other, there's the messy world we're all living in, where those economics are actually playing out.Sometimes, researchers will write about something that they themselves have never actually experienced. Sure, they've thought about it, theorized, come up with smart analyses...but that's not the same as getting out of that armchair and into the real world.So, in this episode, we play our own version of Never Have I Ever. We dare two researchers to go places and do things they have never done before, in hopes of learning something new about the economic world around us.(Okay, fine, it's maybe more like Truth or Dare...but go with us here.)Today's episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi and produced by Emma Peaslee with help from Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWe dare researchers to leave the ivory towerNovember 8, 20236:38 PM ETByAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi,Sally Helm,Emma PeasleeWe dare researchers to leave the ivory towerListen·28:5128:51TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954539/1211674481" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageLeft: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRLeft: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRThe world of economics has these two different sides. One one side, there are the economists in their cozy armchairs and dusty libraries, high up in their ivory towers. On the other, there's the messy world we're all living in, where those economics are actually playing out.Sometimes, researchers will write about something that they themselves have never actually experienced. Sure, they've thought about it, theorized, come up with smart analyses...but that's not the same as getting out of that armchair and into the real world.Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageAlexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRAlexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRSo, in this episode, we play our own version of Never Have I Ever. We dare two researchers to go places and do things they have never done before, in hopes of learning something new about the economic world around us.(Okay, fine, it's maybe more like Truth or Dare...but go with us here.)Today's episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi and produced by Emma Peaslee with help from Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: NPR Source Audio - "The Sunshine," "Happy Harpsichord," "Try Me On," and "House of Mirrors"FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor We dare researchers to leave the ivory towerListen·28:5128:51TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954539/1211674481" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript We dare researchers to leave the ivory towerListen·28:5128:51TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954539/1211674481" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1197954539/1211674481" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageLeft: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRLeft: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRThe world of economics has these two different sides. One one side, there are the economists in their cozy armchairs and dusty libraries, high up in their ivory towers. On the other, there's the messy world we're all living in, where those economics are actually playing out.Sometimes, researchers will write about something that they themselves have never actually experienced. Sure, they've thought about it, theorized, come up with smart analyses...but that's not the same as getting out of that armchair and into the real world.Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageAlexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRAlexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRSo, in this episode, we play our own version of Never Have I Ever. We dare two researchers to go places and do things they have never done before, in hopes of learning something new about the economic world around us.(Okay, fine, it's maybe more like Truth or Dare...but go with us here.)Today's episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi and produced by Emma Peaslee with help from Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer.Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcasts.Find more Planet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Music: NPR Source Audio - "The Sunshine," "Happy Harpsichord," "Try Me On," and "House of Mirrors" Enlarge this imageLeft: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRLeft: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPR Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPR Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle caption Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide caption Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide caption Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPR Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPR Left: Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi helped author Brian Merchant commune with the Luddites by smashing machines. Right: Economist Kevin Lang visited an 1830s historical village to ride in a horse-drawn trolley. The world of economics has these two different sides. One one side, there are the economists in their cozy armchairs and dusty libraries, high up in their ivory towers. On the other, there's the messy world we're all living in, where those economics are actually playing out. Sometimes, researchers will write about something that they themselves have never actually experienced. Sure, they've thought about it, theorized, come up with smart analyses...but that's not the same as getting out of that armchair and into the real world. Enlarge this imageAlexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRAlexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPR Alexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAlexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPR Alexi and Darian pose with their 1620 calorie Bloomin' Onion and some of the new friends they made while searching for socioeconomic mixing at Outback Steakhouse.Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi/NPRhide captiontoggle caption So, in this episode, we play our own version of Never Have I Ever. We dare two researchers to go places and do things they have never done before, in hopes of learning something new about the economic world around us. Today's episode was hosted by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi and produced by Emma Peaslee with help from Willa Rubin. It was edited by Sally Helm, fact checked by Sierra Juarez and engineered by Maggie Luthar. Alex Goldmark is our executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra