# [PODCAST] Why I joined DOGE

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/06/13/1254121714/doge-staffer-sahil-lavingia-musk-va-fired
**Atlas ID**: 229442
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.836533

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Former DOGE staffer talks about efficiency, his time at the VA, and Elon Musk : Planet MoneyWhat was it like to work inside Elon Musk's DOGE? The cost-cutting initiative promised transparency, but most of its actions have been shrouded in secrecy.For months, there were reports of software engineers and Trump loyalists entering agencies and accessing sensitive data. DOGE also helped the Trump administration lay off thousands of government workers. NPR reporters have been trying for months to get anyone from DOGE to talk on the record. Now, Sahil Lavingia, a former DOGE staffer assigned to the Department of Veteran Affairs, is speaking.Today, what drew Sahil to DOGE and what he learned about the inner workings, in a way we've never heard before.For more on DOGE and the federal workforce:- The last time we shrank the federal workforce- Can... we still trust the monthly jobs report?- Can the Federal Reserve stay independent?This episode was hosted by Kenny Malone and Bobby Allyn. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Neal Rauch. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkWhy I joined DOGEJune 13, 20259:47 PM ETByKenny Malone,Bobby Allyn,Jess Jiang,Sam Yellowhorse Kesler,Emma PeasleeWhy I joined DOGEListen·27:2527:25TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254121714/1269473842" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageSahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide captiontoggle captionSahil LavingiaSahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil LavingiaWhat was it like to work inside Elon Musk's DOGE? The cost-cutting initiative promised transparency, but most of its actions have been shrouded in secrecy.For months, there were reports of software engineers and Trump loyalists entering agencies and accessing sensitive data. DOGE also helped the Trump administration lay off thousands of government workers. NPR reporters have been trying for months to get anyone from DOGE to talk on the record. Now, Sahil Lavingia, a former DOGE staffer assigned to the Department of Veteran Affairs, is speaking.Today, what drew Sahil to DOGE and what he learned about the inner workings, in a way we've never heard before.Sponsor MessageFor more on DOGE and the federal workforce:The last time we shrank the federal workforceCan... we still trust the monthly jobs report?Can the Federal Reserve stay independent?This episode was hosted by Kenny Malone and Bobby Allyn. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Neal Rauch. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Production Music - "Two Can Play," "Warm Welcome," and "Better Weather"Big TechmuskdogeElon MuskFacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor Why I joined DOGEListen·27:2527:25TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254121714/1269473842" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Why I joined DOGEListen·27:2527:25TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254121714/1269473842" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1254121714/1269473842" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageSahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide captiontoggle captionSahil LavingiaSahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil LavingiaWhat was it like to work inside Elon Musk's DOGE? The cost-cutting initiative promised transparency, but most of its actions have been shrouded in secrecy.For months, there were reports of software engineers and Trump loyalists entering agencies and accessing sensitive data. DOGE also helped the Trump administration lay off thousands of government workers. NPR reporters have been trying for months to get anyone from DOGE to talk on the record. Now, Sahil Lavingia, a former DOGE staffer assigned to the Department of Veteran Affairs, is speaking.Today, what drew Sahil to DOGE and what he learned about the inner workings, in a way we've never heard before.Sponsor MessageFor more on DOGE and the federal workforce:The last time we shrank the federal workforceCan... we still trust the monthly jobs report?Can the Federal Reserve stay independent?This episode was hosted by Kenny Malone and Bobby Allyn. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Neal Rauch. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer.Find morePlanet Money:Facebook/Instagram/TikTok/ Our weeklyNewsletter.Listen free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,the NPR appor anywhere you get podcasts.Help supportPlanet Moneyand hear our bonus episodes by subscribing toPlanet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Music: Universal Production Music - "Two Can Play," "Warm Welcome," and "Better Weather" Enlarge this imageSahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide captiontoggle captionSahil LavingiaSahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingia Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide captiontoggle captionSahil Lavingia Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide captiontoggle caption Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide caption Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingiahide caption Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingia Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum.Sahil Lavingia Sahil Lavingia (right) was a DOGE staffer at the Department of Veterans Affairs for 55 days. He was sworn in on March 17, 2025 by the VA's Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and Administration / Operations, Security, and Preparedness, Mark Engelbaum. For months, there were reports of software engineers and Trump loyalists entering agencies and accessing sensitive data. DOGE also helped the Trump administration lay off thousands of government workers. NPR reporters have been trying for months to get anyone from DOGE to talk on the record. Now, Sahil Lavingia, a former DOGE staffer assigned to the Department of Veteran Affairs, is speaking. This episode was hosted by Kenny Malone and Bobby Allyn. It was produced by Sam Yellowhorse Kesler and Emma Peaslee. It was edited by Jess Jiang and fact-checked by Sierra Juarez. It was engineered by Neal Rauch. Alex Goldmark isPlanet Money's executive producer. Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra