# [PODCAST] The case of the missing cheese racks

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2022/12/07/1141220705/gouda-cheese-holland-netherlands-supply-chain
**Atlas ID**: 229515
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.850526

---

CloseNavigation MenuHomeNewsExpand/collapse submenu for NewsNationalWorldPoliticsBusinessHealthScienceClimateRaceCultureExpand/collapse submenu for CultureBooksMoviesTelevisionPop CultureFoodArt & DesignPerforming ArtsLife KitGamingMusicExpand/collapse submenu for MusicAll Songs ConsideredTiny DeskNew Music FridayMusic FeaturesLive SessionsPodcasts & ShowsExpand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & ShowsDailyMorning EditionWeekend Edition SaturdayWeekend Edition SundayAll Things ConsideredFresh AirUp FirstFeaturedEmbeddedThe NPR Politics PodcastThroughlineTrump's TermsMore Podcasts & ShowsSearchNewslettersNPR Shop Gouda, cheese racks, and a supply chain problem : Planet MoneyJelle Peterse's company ships cheese all over the world, but they don't always get their cheese racks back. In this episode, we try to fix a supply chain problem. Gouda grief!Subscribe to Planet Money+ inApple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney. Planet MoneyNPRPlanet MoneyLISTEN & FOLLOWNPR AppApple PodcastsSpotifyAmazon MusiciHeart RadioYouTube MusicRSS linkThe case of the missing cheese racksDecember 9, 20226:45 PM ETByAmanda Aronczyk,Emma Peaslee,Sally HelmThe case of the missing cheese racksListen·27:3127:31TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1141220705/1198959735" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">TranscriptEnlarge this imageSmall wheels of Gouda line the shelves at 't Kaaswinkeltje cheese shop in Gouda, the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRSmall wheels of Gouda line the shelves at 't Kaaswinkeltje cheese shop in Gouda, the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRBack in July, we got an email from a man named Jelle Peterse. Jelle lives in the Netherlands, and he's got a job in a very Dutch industry. Jelle's company distributes cheese to buyers worldwide. The Netherlands is actually the second largest exporter of cheese in the world, after Germany. Cheeses like Gouda, Edam, Old Amsterdam -  last year, the country made more than two billion pounds of cheese, more than half of which was Gouda.Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageJelle Peterse is a supply chain expert at a large Dutch cheese company.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRJelle Peterse is a supply chain expert at a large Dutch cheese company.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRThe cheese business in the Netherlands is big, old, and everyone knows each other. Jelle explains that family connections sometimes date back hundreds of years; the Dutch cheese business is steeped in tradition. There's even a clandestine cheese guild with secretive ceremonies and arcane practices (okay, not really - they have awebsite.)But Jelle isn't in the cheese guild - he's fairly new to all this. And that has made it challenging to deal with a problem he was hired to fix. He's a supply chain expert, he's responsible for thinking about how to move his company's cheese around. One of his most valuable assets is the cheese rack: metal shelving with wood planks specifically made for transporting entire wheels of cheese.Enlarge this imageCustom-built cheese racks used for transporting cheese wheels at a warehouse near Gouda in the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRCustom-built cheese racks used for transporting cheese wheels at a warehouse near Gouda in the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRJelle says that these are custom-built. Each one costs nearly 500 dollars. And Jelle has a problem with his cheese racks. Once the cheese is sold, the racks aresupposedto be returned to him. But out of the 2000 or so racks his company owns, he can only account for a couple dozen. Even in this friendly industry, Jelle's customers are justnotreturning the racks. So, he emailed Planet Money to see if we could help him solve a cheese rack mystery.Planet MoneyEpisode 862: Big Government CheeseNPR's Chef Janis McLean recommends pairing this episode with an aged Gouda, such as a Beemster. For wines, a full-bodied red such as a cabernet franc or pinot noir would go nicely. If you prefer a younger Gouda, you might pair it with a grenache or chardonnay, or perhaps a white wine such as a riesling. Cheers!Music: "All Mouth and No Trouser," "Barney's Bagels," "Heavyweight," and "Strolling In The Snow."Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcastsFind more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokour weeklyNewsletter.FacebookFlipboardEmailRead & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText OnlySponsor MessageSponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor The case of the missing cheese racksListen·27:3127:31TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1141220705/1198959735" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript The case of the missing cheese racksListen·27:3127:31TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1141220705/1198959735" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript TranscriptToggle more optionsDownloadEmbedEmbed<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1141220705/1198959735" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">Transcript Enlarge this imageSmall wheels of Gouda line the shelves at 't Kaaswinkeltje cheese shop in Gouda, the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRSmall wheels of Gouda line the shelves at 't Kaaswinkeltje cheese shop in Gouda, the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRBack in July, we got an email from a man named Jelle Peterse. Jelle lives in the Netherlands, and he's got a job in a very Dutch industry. Jelle's company distributes cheese to buyers worldwide. The Netherlands is actually the second largest exporter of cheese in the world, after Germany. Cheeses like Gouda, Edam, Old Amsterdam -  last year, the country made more than two billion pounds of cheese, more than half of which was Gouda.Sponsor MessageEnlarge this imageJelle Peterse is a supply chain expert at a large Dutch cheese company.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRJelle Peterse is a supply chain expert at a large Dutch cheese company.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRThe cheese business in the Netherlands is big, old, and everyone knows each other. Jelle explains that family connections sometimes date back hundreds of years; the Dutch cheese business is steeped in tradition. There's even a clandestine cheese guild with secretive ceremonies and arcane practices (okay, not really - they have awebsite.)But Jelle isn't in the cheese guild - he's fairly new to all this. And that has made it challenging to deal with a problem he was hired to fix. He's a supply chain expert, he's responsible for thinking about how to move his company's cheese around. One of his most valuable assets is the cheese rack: metal shelving with wood planks specifically made for transporting entire wheels of cheese.Enlarge this imageCustom-built cheese racks used for transporting cheese wheels at a warehouse near Gouda in the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRCustom-built cheese racks used for transporting cheese wheels at a warehouse near Gouda in the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRJelle says that these are custom-built. Each one costs nearly 500 dollars. And Jelle has a problem with his cheese racks. Once the cheese is sold, the racks aresupposedto be returned to him. But out of the 2000 or so racks his company owns, he can only account for a couple dozen. Even in this friendly industry, Jelle's customers are justnotreturning the racks. So, he emailed Planet Money to see if we could help him solve a cheese rack mystery.Planet MoneyEpisode 862: Big Government CheeseNPR's Chef Janis McLean recommends pairing this episode with an aged Gouda, such as a Beemster. For wines, a full-bodied red such as a cabernet franc or pinot noir would go nicely. If you prefer a younger Gouda, you might pair it with a grenache or chardonnay, or perhaps a white wine such as a riesling. Cheers!Music: "All Mouth and No Trouser," "Barney's Bagels," "Heavyweight," and "Strolling In The Snow."Help support Planet Money and get bonus episodes by subscribing to Planet Money+in Apple Podcastsor atplus.npr.org/planetmoney.Always free at these links:Apple Podcasts,Spotify,Google Podcasts,NPR Oneor anywhere you get podcastsFind more Planet Money:Twitter/Facebook/Instagram/TikTokour weeklyNewsletter. Enlarge this imageSmall wheels of Gouda line the shelves at 't Kaaswinkeltje cheese shop in Gouda, the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRSmall wheels of Gouda line the shelves at 't Kaaswinkeltje cheese shop in Gouda, the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Back in July, we got an email from a man named Jelle Peterse. Jelle lives in the Netherlands, and he's got a job in a very Dutch industry. Jelle's company distributes cheese to buyers worldwide. The Netherlands is actually the second largest exporter of cheese in the world, after Germany. Cheeses like Gouda, Edam, Old Amsterdam -  last year, the country made more than two billion pounds of cheese, more than half of which was Gouda. Enlarge this imageJelle Peterse is a supply chain expert at a large Dutch cheese company.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRJelle Peterse is a supply chain expert at a large Dutch cheese company.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR The cheese business in the Netherlands is big, old, and everyone knows each other. Jelle explains that family connections sometimes date back hundreds of years; the Dutch cheese business is steeped in tradition. There's even a clandestine cheese guild with secretive ceremonies and arcane practices (okay, not really - they have awebsite.) But Jelle isn't in the cheese guild - he's fairly new to all this. And that has made it challenging to deal with a problem he was hired to fix. He's a supply chain expert, he's responsible for thinking about how to move his company's cheese around. One of his most valuable assets is the cheese rack: metal shelving with wood planks specifically made for transporting entire wheels of cheese. Enlarge this imageCustom-built cheese racks used for transporting cheese wheels at a warehouse near Gouda in the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPRhide captiontoggle captionAmanda Aronczyk/NPRCustom-built cheese racks used for transporting cheese wheels at a warehouse near Gouda in the Netherlands.Amanda Aronczyk/NPR Jelle says that these are custom-built. Each one costs nearly 500 dollars. And Jelle has a problem with his cheese racks. Once the cheese is sold, the racks aresupposedto be returned to him. But out of the 2000 or so racks his company owns, he can only account for a couple dozen. Even in this friendly industry, Jelle's customers are justnotreturning the racks. So, he emailed Planet Money to see if we could help him solve a cheese rack mystery. NPR's Chef Janis McLean recommends pairing this episode with an aged Gouda, such as a Beemster. For wines, a full-bodied red such as a cabernet franc or pinot noir would go nicely. If you prefer a younger Gouda, you might pair it with a grenache or chardonnay, or perhaps a white wine such as a riesling. Cheers! Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR ExtraTerms of UsePrivacyYour Privacy ChoicesText Only Read & ListenHomeNewsCultureMusicPodcasts & ShowsConnectNewslettersFacebookInstagramPressPublic EditorCorrectionsTranscriptsContact & HelpAbout NPROverviewDiversityNPR NetworkAccessibilityEthicsFinancesGet InvolvedSupport Public RadioSponsor NPRNPR CareersNPR ShopNPR EventsNPR Extra