# [PODCAST] Google's Play Store Remedies, The Injunction, The Power of Network Effects

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2024/googles-play-store-remedies-the-injunction-the-power-of-network-effects/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.uOrMadpEuZSh1orH-wbKJeyaoDoWr2qldDh60ry9w2WbrtXL3tmDC5O0i5Dc1lFL6INUgrS0TQmBopo-M59OuqDrXAry5zkjLpYBJsW522sNtVY6lWhqzb969DY4IjB_Fw5yqiK5tcjsPAmpItK4khfTeoTDoF0sKhEB3K_nbP6inHejPXqLXIGHv3axqSQ6uXHhglVkrGy7t-0FgjAG1FYtg4yeC1nYtLsSgzXwrCPizNBVqEup32uNIiRvw2vTeq6xqsqj-eiM1SJp5PorjTaDCw3Ku9twmDDHGra3wTqomj2tdBw8Sm8T6mWsjXmSHyQrNhPTHkFaBjCLKV56Vw
**Atlas ID**: 229685
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:30.940566

---

By Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumMenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirGoogle’s Play Store Remedies, The Injunction, The Power of Network EffectsTuesday, October 8, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Due to a total brain fart by me — I’ve explained this correctly in the past! — my explanation of key exchanges inyesterday’s Updatewas backwards. The message sender uses a public key sent by the recipient to encrypt a message, who then decrypts the message using their private key (I said the sender uses their own key). My apologies for the mistake, and thanks to the (many) readers who corrected me!On to the Update:Google’s Play Store RemediesFrom theWall Street Journal:A judge ordered Google to make it easier for developers of mobile-app stores to compete on phones and tablets that use the company’s Android software, a blow to the search giant as it navigates numerous legal threats.The injunction issued Monday by U.S. District Judge James Donato is the result of Google losing an antitrust case—brought by “Fortnite” developer Epic Games—during a jury trial last December. Epic, which operates its own app store, argued that Google used its power over Android to take excess profits from app developers through its Play Store. Google has said it plans to appeal the ruling.Donato ordered Google to allow third parties to access the company’s Play Store catalog of apps to build competing offerings. He also barred Google from paying incentives to app developers to release an app first or exclusively on the Play Store, as well as to device manufacturers to pre-install the Play Store in a specific location or not pre-install a competing app store.The injunction is set to take effect next month, with many of the remedies lasting three years. In a blog post, Google’s vice president of regulatory affairs said the company will “ask the courts to pause implementing the remedies to maintain a consistent and safe experience for users and developers as the legal process moves forward.”To quickly refresh your memory, this case was the sister case to the Apple-Epic case, which Apple mostly won;I expected Google to be much more at riskandindeed they were, for reasons thatJudge James Donato laid out in July:Google says that it doesn’t matter that there are multiple brands of Android devices because “Google generates significant revenue from Android devices.” Even taking that as true for discussion purposes, it hardly explains why many different and competing OEM brands should be treated as a single brand. Google certainly did not present any evidence, or case law or other authority, in support of that proposition…This case also differs from the Apple case in that the Apple App Store is the only app store for iOS devices, which is not true for Android devices. Substantial evidence was presented at trial that multiple Android app stores can be, and on occasion have been, available to consumers. Google’s efforts to suppress rival app stores was another key theme at trial. To that end, an internal Google document asked the “existential question”: “How do we continue to keep Play as the preeminent distribution platform for Android?” Other documents referred to a “market” consisting of Android app developers only, and spoke of “store rivals” that were Android app stores. Google’s CEO, Sundar Pichai, testified that each Android OEM “had the potential to have an app store” which “would compete with Google Play.”Google wants the same control of Android that Apple has, while operating a licensable operating system for third parties. However, you can’t have both! Apple is able to dictate terms for iOS to a much greater extent than Google can for Android precisely because they own the entire thing; Google wants the benefit of “openness” and commoditizing OEMs without giving up control. The only way to accomplish that, though, is through contracts and deals that were found to be illegal.One thing worth pointing out is that Google is right that the market definition in this case is completely different than the market definition in the Apple case; Judge Donato dismissed that concern, but I could certainly see it being an issue at appeal.The InjunctionJudge Donato issuedanother opinionyesterday explaining his goals with the injunction, the specifics of which I will get to below. This is the key section:The consequences to be remediated are intertwined with the network effects of Google’s dominant position in the relevant markets…Even a corporate behemoth like Amazon could not compete with the Google Play Store due to network effects. Consequently, the injunction must overcome the effects by providing access to the catalog of Play Store apps for a period of time sufficient to give rival stores a fair opportunity to establish themselves. This will be three years on the terms stated in the injunction.Google says that any network effects in the relevant market are attributable to its role as a first mover in the markets, and so are not subject to remediation. The point is not well taken. The network effects presented during trial are a feature of any two-sided market such as the Google Play Store. Although Google may legitimately claim some early mover advantage, it was not entitled to maintain and magnify network effects, and thereby entrench its dominant position, through the anticompetitive conduct found by the jury…In effect, Google unfairly enhanced its network effects in a way that would not have happened but for its anticompetitive conduct. This is why the injunction must not only prohibit the specific anticompetitive conduct that Google engaged in, but also undo the consequence of Google’s ill-gotten gains…The injunction must bridge the moat.To that end, here is what is covered inthe injunction, which starts on November 1, 2024, and runs for three years:Google may not share Google Play Store revenue with any entity that distributes Android apps or has stated that it is considering doing so. In other words, no buying off potential competitors.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on exclusive app distribution through the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on a developer not launching an alternative App Store, or in diminishing the functionality of apps in other stores relative to the app in the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs for default placement of the Play Store on their devices.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs to not install alternative app stores.Google may not require the use of Google Play billing in apps distributed through the Play Store, nor prohibit the use of alternative billing systems.Google may not prohibit a developer from informing users about billing options on the web, nor prohibit developers from providing links to that effect.Google has eight months to implement the following (at which point the three-year clock will start):Google must permit third-party app stores to access the Google Play Store’s catalog of apps so that they may offer them to end users if the app store developer does not have their own relationship with the relevant developers. All apps downloaded from Google will be monetized by Google, and Play Store developers can opt out of being listed in third-party app stores.Google may not prohibit the distribution of third-party app stores through the Play Store, but can implement reasonable security measures.Google — rightly! — pointed out that a lot of these requirements, particularly the opening of the Play Store catalog, are a “duty to deal”, the refusal of which is not an antitrust violation. Judge Donato countered:The Court has fully agreed for the duration of this case that a refusal to deal with a potential rival may not be the basis of antitrust liability. The jury was expressly instructed on that point. Nothing in the verdict or the evidence at trial condemned Google for not extending a helping hand to a rival.The problem for Google is that the case is now in the remedy phase, not the liability phase. The question at hand is not whether Google violated the antitrust laws by failing to aid rivals, but what measures are necessary to restore fair competition in the face of the barriers found by the jury. The jury heard abundant evidence that Google used a variety of means to ensure that the Play Store was the only fully developed Android app marketplace for users and developers. This evidence included the MADA and RSA agreements and Google’s conditioning of access by OEMs to Google’s Android services on preinstallation of the Google Play Store on the home screen of Android devices. The use of burdensome “scare screens” to discourage sideloading of apps is another example of evidence heard by the jury. Requiring Google to allow other app stores to be distributed through the Play Store for a discrete period is a modest step to correct the consequence of unlawfully preventing rival stores from reaching users and developers.I think it’s a reasonable point, although Google will certainly challenge this on appeal. What it speaks to more than anything isan observation I madein the context of Google’s loss in the default search case, which is that the question of remedies truly show the fundamental paradox at the heart of antitrust: any attempt to fix alleged distortion is itself distortive, and necessitates the violation of the guilty party’s property rights.The Power of Network EffectsThat noted, I think there is a reasonable chance the particulars of this injunction don’t work out the way Judge Donato hopes. You can understand his intention: it is impossible to stand up an alternative app store without actually having apps; that is what undergirds opening up the Play Store catalog to third party apps. The question, however, is what is going to happen in three years, when the injunction ends? Are all of these alternative app stores going to suddenly be bereft of apps?This gets at another key point about all of these app store disputes: not all developers are hurt by the status quo. You can certainly see Epic’s point of view: they want to sell in-app purchases without giving 30% to Google; any developer whose business model is based on those sort of consumables will presumably be open to making their apps available across the various app stores that pop up.A huge number of apps, though, aren’t monetized through in-app purchase at all: they are free, or monetize through something other than digital consumables. For all of these developers new app stores are nothing more than a cost center; not only is it hard to see why they would want to do the work to have a direct relationship with third party app stores, but it would actually be in their interest to opt out of being made available for the three year period where that is an option. Indeed, it’s in their interest to kill this entire movement.Subscription-based apps are in the middle, but I would suspect lean more towards preferring the current status quo. Google (1) charges 15% for the first $1 million in subscription revenue in a year and past that (2) charges 30% for the first year of a subscription and 15% thereafter. The net result is that a lot of small developers would probably find it easier to just stick with the Play Store, particularly since their burden in terms of implementing new payment systems would be higher than the free apps. Large developers may see the value in doing that work, but it’s a closer call than it seems.All of that is to say that I’m skeptical that even this deep intervention into the Play Store is going to work; Google is right that it was there first, and that advantage and userbase matters most.Many of the same points apply to the chance to use third-party payment methods in an app. Implementing that will be a lot of work, for a benefit that will only last for three years. Once again, it will definitely be worth it for games selling consumables. The calculus for subscription-based apps, however, is even more daunting: the goal for any subscription-based app is to keep customers for the long-haul, but what if in three years they have to try and transition the consumer back to Google Play billing? That sounds like a recipe for churn that will cost much more than whatever money they saved in the meantime. The lack of long-term clarity on this point seems like a real miss by the judge, which itself speaks to one of the core problems with antitrust jurisdiction: judges aren’t qualified to be product designers!In summary, I think that these changes will be good for the short-term profits of certain type of games, and kind of a dud everywhere else. I just don’t think a three year window provides enough upside to incentivize most developers to join third-party app stores, and the churn risk stemming from a rule reversion will have the same chilling effect on implementing different billing systems.I don’t really blame Judge Donato for this; I concluded years ago that the network effects of the App Store, combined with U.S. antitrust precedent, meant there really wasn’t a feasible way to change the App Store from the outside. The only real hope was toconvince Apple and Google that they should operate differently. I concluded 2021’sApp Store Argumentsthusly:What I wish would happen — and yes, I know this is naive and stupid and probably fruitless — is that Apple would just give the slightest bit of ground. Yes, the company has the right to earn a profit from its IP, and yes, it created the market that developers want to take advantage of, and yes, the new generation of creators experimenting with new kinds of monetization only make sense in an iPhone world, but must Apple claim it all?Let developers own their apps, including telling users about their websites, and let creatives build relationships with their fans instead of intermediating everything. And, for what it’s worth, continue controlling games: I do think the App Store is a safer model, particularly for kids, and the fact of the matter is that consoles have the same rules. The entire economy, though, is more than a game, and the real position of strength is unlocking the full potential of the iPhone ecosystem, instead of demanding every dime, deadweight loss be damned.In this case we now have the exact opposite: games will take advantage of this injunction, and everyone else will probably just stick to the status quo. Google may have lost this case, but network effects remain undefeated.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe Apple v. Epic DecisionDateMonday, September 13, 2021Tech and AntitrustDateMonday, June 10, 2019Antitrust and AggregationDateTuesday, April 26, 2016←U.S. Communications Hacked, The History of CALEA, Encryption and BackdoorsTesla’s Robotaxi Event, Tesla Self-Driving 12.5 Experience, Starlink and Airlines→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View AllStratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. MenuSearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air SearchStratecheryPlusSubscribeLog InLearn MoreMember ForumBy Ben ThompsonAboutEmail/RSS@benthompsonExploreConceptsCompaniesTopicsMore by Ben ThompsonUpdatesInterviewsYear in ReviewAll ArticlesLatest PodcastThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone Air Google’s Play Store Remedies, The Injunction, The Power of Network EffectsTuesday, October 8, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Due to a total brain fart by me — I’ve explained this correctly in the past! — my explanation of key exchanges inyesterday’s Updatewas backwards. The message sender uses a public key sent by the recipient to encrypt a message, who then decrypts the message using their private key (I said the sender uses their own key). My apologies for the mistake, and thanks to the (many) readers who corrected me!On to the Update:Google’s Play Store RemediesFrom theWall Street Journal:A judge ordered Google to make it easier for developers of mobile-app stores to compete on phones and tablets that use the company’s Android software, a blow to the search giant as it navigates numerous legal threats.The injunction issued Monday by U.S. District Judge James Donato is the result of Google losing an antitrust case—brought by “Fortnite” developer Epic Games—during a jury trial last December. Epic, which operates its own app store, argued that Google used its power over Android to take excess profits from app developers through its Play Store. Google has said it plans to appeal the ruling.Donato ordered Google to allow third parties to access the company’s Play Store catalog of apps to build competing offerings. He also barred Google from paying incentives to app developers to release an app first or exclusively on the Play Store, as well as to device manufacturers to pre-install the Play Store in a specific location or not pre-install a competing app store.The injunction is set to take effect next month, with many of the remedies lasting three years. In a blog post, Google’s vice president of regulatory affairs said the company will “ask the courts to pause implementing the remedies to maintain a consistent and safe experience for users and developers as the legal process moves forward.”To quickly refresh your memory, this case was the sister case to the Apple-Epic case, which Apple mostly won;I expected Google to be much more at riskandindeed they were, for reasons thatJudge James Donato laid out in July:Google says that it doesn’t matter that there are multiple brands of Android devices because “Google generates significant revenue from Android devices.” Even taking that as true for discussion purposes, it hardly explains why many different and competing OEM brands should be treated as a single brand. Google certainly did not present any evidence, or case law or other authority, in support of that proposition…This case also differs from the Apple case in that the Apple App Store is the only app store for iOS devices, which is not true for Android devices. Substantial evidence was presented at trial that multiple Android app stores can be, and on occasion have been, available to consumers. Google’s efforts to suppress rival app stores was another key theme at trial. To that end, an internal Google document asked the “existential question”: “How do we continue to keep Play as the preeminent distribution platform for Android?” Other documents referred to a “market” consisting of Android app developers only, and spoke of “store rivals” that were Android app stores. Google’s CEO, Sundar Pichai, testified that each Android OEM “had the potential to have an app store” which “would compete with Google Play.”Google wants the same control of Android that Apple has, while operating a licensable operating system for third parties. However, you can’t have both! Apple is able to dictate terms for iOS to a much greater extent than Google can for Android precisely because they own the entire thing; Google wants the benefit of “openness” and commoditizing OEMs without giving up control. The only way to accomplish that, though, is through contracts and deals that were found to be illegal.One thing worth pointing out is that Google is right that the market definition in this case is completely different than the market definition in the Apple case; Judge Donato dismissed that concern, but I could certainly see it being an issue at appeal.The InjunctionJudge Donato issuedanother opinionyesterday explaining his goals with the injunction, the specifics of which I will get to below. This is the key section:The consequences to be remediated are intertwined with the network effects of Google’s dominant position in the relevant markets…Even a corporate behemoth like Amazon could not compete with the Google Play Store due to network effects. Consequently, the injunction must overcome the effects by providing access to the catalog of Play Store apps for a period of time sufficient to give rival stores a fair opportunity to establish themselves. This will be three years on the terms stated in the injunction.Google says that any network effects in the relevant market are attributable to its role as a first mover in the markets, and so are not subject to remediation. The point is not well taken. The network effects presented during trial are a feature of any two-sided market such as the Google Play Store. Although Google may legitimately claim some early mover advantage, it was not entitled to maintain and magnify network effects, and thereby entrench its dominant position, through the anticompetitive conduct found by the jury…In effect, Google unfairly enhanced its network effects in a way that would not have happened but for its anticompetitive conduct. This is why the injunction must not only prohibit the specific anticompetitive conduct that Google engaged in, but also undo the consequence of Google’s ill-gotten gains…The injunction must bridge the moat.To that end, here is what is covered inthe injunction, which starts on November 1, 2024, and runs for three years:Google may not share Google Play Store revenue with any entity that distributes Android apps or has stated that it is considering doing so. In other words, no buying off potential competitors.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on exclusive app distribution through the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on a developer not launching an alternative App Store, or in diminishing the functionality of apps in other stores relative to the app in the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs for default placement of the Play Store on their devices.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs to not install alternative app stores.Google may not require the use of Google Play billing in apps distributed through the Play Store, nor prohibit the use of alternative billing systems.Google may not prohibit a developer from informing users about billing options on the web, nor prohibit developers from providing links to that effect.Google has eight months to implement the following (at which point the three-year clock will start):Google must permit third-party app stores to access the Google Play Store’s catalog of apps so that they may offer them to end users if the app store developer does not have their own relationship with the relevant developers. All apps downloaded from Google will be monetized by Google, and Play Store developers can opt out of being listed in third-party app stores.Google may not prohibit the distribution of third-party app stores through the Play Store, but can implement reasonable security measures.Google — rightly! — pointed out that a lot of these requirements, particularly the opening of the Play Store catalog, are a “duty to deal”, the refusal of which is not an antitrust violation. Judge Donato countered:The Court has fully agreed for the duration of this case that a refusal to deal with a potential rival may not be the basis of antitrust liability. The jury was expressly instructed on that point. Nothing in the verdict or the evidence at trial condemned Google for not extending a helping hand to a rival.The problem for Google is that the case is now in the remedy phase, not the liability phase. The question at hand is not whether Google violated the antitrust laws by failing to aid rivals, but what measures are necessary to restore fair competition in the face of the barriers found by the jury. The jury heard abundant evidence that Google used a variety of means to ensure that the Play Store was the only fully developed Android app marketplace for users and developers. This evidence included the MADA and RSA agreements and Google’s conditioning of access by OEMs to Google’s Android services on preinstallation of the Google Play Store on the home screen of Android devices. The use of burdensome “scare screens” to discourage sideloading of apps is another example of evidence heard by the jury. Requiring Google to allow other app stores to be distributed through the Play Store for a discrete period is a modest step to correct the consequence of unlawfully preventing rival stores from reaching users and developers.I think it’s a reasonable point, although Google will certainly challenge this on appeal. What it speaks to more than anything isan observation I madein the context of Google’s loss in the default search case, which is that the question of remedies truly show the fundamental paradox at the heart of antitrust: any attempt to fix alleged distortion is itself distortive, and necessitates the violation of the guilty party’s property rights.The Power of Network EffectsThat noted, I think there is a reasonable chance the particulars of this injunction don’t work out the way Judge Donato hopes. You can understand his intention: it is impossible to stand up an alternative app store without actually having apps; that is what undergirds opening up the Play Store catalog to third party apps. The question, however, is what is going to happen in three years, when the injunction ends? Are all of these alternative app stores going to suddenly be bereft of apps?This gets at another key point about all of these app store disputes: not all developers are hurt by the status quo. You can certainly see Epic’s point of view: they want to sell in-app purchases without giving 30% to Google; any developer whose business model is based on those sort of consumables will presumably be open to making their apps available across the various app stores that pop up.A huge number of apps, though, aren’t monetized through in-app purchase at all: they are free, or monetize through something other than digital consumables. For all of these developers new app stores are nothing more than a cost center; not only is it hard to see why they would want to do the work to have a direct relationship with third party app stores, but it would actually be in their interest to opt out of being made available for the three year period where that is an option. Indeed, it’s in their interest to kill this entire movement.Subscription-based apps are in the middle, but I would suspect lean more towards preferring the current status quo. Google (1) charges 15% for the first $1 million in subscription revenue in a year and past that (2) charges 30% for the first year of a subscription and 15% thereafter. The net result is that a lot of small developers would probably find it easier to just stick with the Play Store, particularly since their burden in terms of implementing new payment systems would be higher than the free apps. Large developers may see the value in doing that work, but it’s a closer call than it seems.All of that is to say that I’m skeptical that even this deep intervention into the Play Store is going to work; Google is right that it was there first, and that advantage and userbase matters most.Many of the same points apply to the chance to use third-party payment methods in an app. Implementing that will be a lot of work, for a benefit that will only last for three years. Once again, it will definitely be worth it for games selling consumables. The calculus for subscription-based apps, however, is even more daunting: the goal for any subscription-based app is to keep customers for the long-haul, but what if in three years they have to try and transition the consumer back to Google Play billing? That sounds like a recipe for churn that will cost much more than whatever money they saved in the meantime. The lack of long-term clarity on this point seems like a real miss by the judge, which itself speaks to one of the core problems with antitrust jurisdiction: judges aren’t qualified to be product designers!In summary, I think that these changes will be good for the short-term profits of certain type of games, and kind of a dud everywhere else. I just don’t think a three year window provides enough upside to incentivize most developers to join third-party app stores, and the churn risk stemming from a rule reversion will have the same chilling effect on implementing different billing systems.I don’t really blame Judge Donato for this; I concluded years ago that the network effects of the App Store, combined with U.S. antitrust precedent, meant there really wasn’t a feasible way to change the App Store from the outside. The only real hope was toconvince Apple and Google that they should operate differently. I concluded 2021’sApp Store Argumentsthusly:What I wish would happen — and yes, I know this is naive and stupid and probably fruitless — is that Apple would just give the slightest bit of ground. Yes, the company has the right to earn a profit from its IP, and yes, it created the market that developers want to take advantage of, and yes, the new generation of creators experimenting with new kinds of monetization only make sense in an iPhone world, but must Apple claim it all?Let developers own their apps, including telling users about their websites, and let creatives build relationships with their fans instead of intermediating everything. And, for what it’s worth, continue controlling games: I do think the App Store is a safer model, particularly for kids, and the fact of the matter is that consoles have the same rules. The entire economy, though, is more than a game, and the real position of strength is unlocking the full potential of the iPhone ecosystem, instead of demanding every dime, deadweight loss be damned.In this case we now have the exact opposite: games will take advantage of this injunction, and everyone else will probably just stick to the status quo. Google may have lost this case, but network effects remain undefeated.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe Apple v. Epic DecisionDateMonday, September 13, 2021Tech and AntitrustDateMonday, June 10, 2019Antitrust and AggregationDateTuesday, April 26, 2016←U.S. Communications Hacked, The History of CALEA, Encryption and BackdoorsTesla’s Robotaxi Event, Tesla Self-Driving 12.5 Experience, Starlink and Airlines→SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Google’s Play Store Remedies, The Injunction, The Power of Network EffectsTuesday, October 8, 2024Listen to PodcastListen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Due to a total brain fart by me — I’ve explained this correctly in the past! — my explanation of key exchanges inyesterday’s Updatewas backwards. The message sender uses a public key sent by the recipient to encrypt a message, who then decrypts the message using their private key (I said the sender uses their own key). My apologies for the mistake, and thanks to the (many) readers who corrected me!On to the Update:Google’s Play Store RemediesFrom theWall Street Journal:A judge ordered Google to make it easier for developers of mobile-app stores to compete on phones and tablets that use the company’s Android software, a blow to the search giant as it navigates numerous legal threats.The injunction issued Monday by U.S. District Judge James Donato is the result of Google losing an antitrust case—brought by “Fortnite” developer Epic Games—during a jury trial last December. Epic, which operates its own app store, argued that Google used its power over Android to take excess profits from app developers through its Play Store. Google has said it plans to appeal the ruling.Donato ordered Google to allow third parties to access the company’s Play Store catalog of apps to build competing offerings. He also barred Google from paying incentives to app developers to release an app first or exclusively on the Play Store, as well as to device manufacturers to pre-install the Play Store in a specific location or not pre-install a competing app store.The injunction is set to take effect next month, with many of the remedies lasting three years. In a blog post, Google’s vice president of regulatory affairs said the company will “ask the courts to pause implementing the remedies to maintain a consistent and safe experience for users and developers as the legal process moves forward.”To quickly refresh your memory, this case was the sister case to the Apple-Epic case, which Apple mostly won;I expected Google to be much more at riskandindeed they were, for reasons thatJudge James Donato laid out in July:Google says that it doesn’t matter that there are multiple brands of Android devices because “Google generates significant revenue from Android devices.” Even taking that as true for discussion purposes, it hardly explains why many different and competing OEM brands should be treated as a single brand. Google certainly did not present any evidence, or case law or other authority, in support of that proposition…This case also differs from the Apple case in that the Apple App Store is the only app store for iOS devices, which is not true for Android devices. Substantial evidence was presented at trial that multiple Android app stores can be, and on occasion have been, available to consumers. Google’s efforts to suppress rival app stores was another key theme at trial. To that end, an internal Google document asked the “existential question”: “How do we continue to keep Play as the preeminent distribution platform for Android?” Other documents referred to a “market” consisting of Android app developers only, and spoke of “store rivals” that were Android app stores. Google’s CEO, Sundar Pichai, testified that each Android OEM “had the potential to have an app store” which “would compete with Google Play.”Google wants the same control of Android that Apple has, while operating a licensable operating system for third parties. However, you can’t have both! Apple is able to dictate terms for iOS to a much greater extent than Google can for Android precisely because they own the entire thing; Google wants the benefit of “openness” and commoditizing OEMs without giving up control. The only way to accomplish that, though, is through contracts and deals that were found to be illegal.One thing worth pointing out is that Google is right that the market definition in this case is completely different than the market definition in the Apple case; Judge Donato dismissed that concern, but I could certainly see it being an issue at appeal.The InjunctionJudge Donato issuedanother opinionyesterday explaining his goals with the injunction, the specifics of which I will get to below. This is the key section:The consequences to be remediated are intertwined with the network effects of Google’s dominant position in the relevant markets…Even a corporate behemoth like Amazon could not compete with the Google Play Store due to network effects. Consequently, the injunction must overcome the effects by providing access to the catalog of Play Store apps for a period of time sufficient to give rival stores a fair opportunity to establish themselves. This will be three years on the terms stated in the injunction.Google says that any network effects in the relevant market are attributable to its role as a first mover in the markets, and so are not subject to remediation. The point is not well taken. The network effects presented during trial are a feature of any two-sided market such as the Google Play Store. Although Google may legitimately claim some early mover advantage, it was not entitled to maintain and magnify network effects, and thereby entrench its dominant position, through the anticompetitive conduct found by the jury…In effect, Google unfairly enhanced its network effects in a way that would not have happened but for its anticompetitive conduct. This is why the injunction must not only prohibit the specific anticompetitive conduct that Google engaged in, but also undo the consequence of Google’s ill-gotten gains…The injunction must bridge the moat.To that end, here is what is covered inthe injunction, which starts on November 1, 2024, and runs for three years:Google may not share Google Play Store revenue with any entity that distributes Android apps or has stated that it is considering doing so. In other words, no buying off potential competitors.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on exclusive app distribution through the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on a developer not launching an alternative App Store, or in diminishing the functionality of apps in other stores relative to the app in the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs for default placement of the Play Store on their devices.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs to not install alternative app stores.Google may not require the use of Google Play billing in apps distributed through the Play Store, nor prohibit the use of alternative billing systems.Google may not prohibit a developer from informing users about billing options on the web, nor prohibit developers from providing links to that effect.Google has eight months to implement the following (at which point the three-year clock will start):Google must permit third-party app stores to access the Google Play Store’s catalog of apps so that they may offer them to end users if the app store developer does not have their own relationship with the relevant developers. All apps downloaded from Google will be monetized by Google, and Play Store developers can opt out of being listed in third-party app stores.Google may not prohibit the distribution of third-party app stores through the Play Store, but can implement reasonable security measures.Google — rightly! — pointed out that a lot of these requirements, particularly the opening of the Play Store catalog, are a “duty to deal”, the refusal of which is not an antitrust violation. Judge Donato countered:The Court has fully agreed for the duration of this case that a refusal to deal with a potential rival may not be the basis of antitrust liability. The jury was expressly instructed on that point. Nothing in the verdict or the evidence at trial condemned Google for not extending a helping hand to a rival.The problem for Google is that the case is now in the remedy phase, not the liability phase. The question at hand is not whether Google violated the antitrust laws by failing to aid rivals, but what measures are necessary to restore fair competition in the face of the barriers found by the jury. The jury heard abundant evidence that Google used a variety of means to ensure that the Play Store was the only fully developed Android app marketplace for users and developers. This evidence included the MADA and RSA agreements and Google’s conditioning of access by OEMs to Google’s Android services on preinstallation of the Google Play Store on the home screen of Android devices. The use of burdensome “scare screens” to discourage sideloading of apps is another example of evidence heard by the jury. Requiring Google to allow other app stores to be distributed through the Play Store for a discrete period is a modest step to correct the consequence of unlawfully preventing rival stores from reaching users and developers.I think it’s a reasonable point, although Google will certainly challenge this on appeal. What it speaks to more than anything isan observation I madein the context of Google’s loss in the default search case, which is that the question of remedies truly show the fundamental paradox at the heart of antitrust: any attempt to fix alleged distortion is itself distortive, and necessitates the violation of the guilty party’s property rights.The Power of Network EffectsThat noted, I think there is a reasonable chance the particulars of this injunction don’t work out the way Judge Donato hopes. You can understand his intention: it is impossible to stand up an alternative app store without actually having apps; that is what undergirds opening up the Play Store catalog to third party apps. The question, however, is what is going to happen in three years, when the injunction ends? Are all of these alternative app stores going to suddenly be bereft of apps?This gets at another key point about all of these app store disputes: not all developers are hurt by the status quo. You can certainly see Epic’s point of view: they want to sell in-app purchases without giving 30% to Google; any developer whose business model is based on those sort of consumables will presumably be open to making their apps available across the various app stores that pop up.A huge number of apps, though, aren’t monetized through in-app purchase at all: they are free, or monetize through something other than digital consumables. For all of these developers new app stores are nothing more than a cost center; not only is it hard to see why they would want to do the work to have a direct relationship with third party app stores, but it would actually be in their interest to opt out of being made available for the three year period where that is an option. Indeed, it’s in their interest to kill this entire movement.Subscription-based apps are in the middle, but I would suspect lean more towards preferring the current status quo. Google (1) charges 15% for the first $1 million in subscription revenue in a year and past that (2) charges 30% for the first year of a subscription and 15% thereafter. The net result is that a lot of small developers would probably find it easier to just stick with the Play Store, particularly since their burden in terms of implementing new payment systems would be higher than the free apps. Large developers may see the value in doing that work, but it’s a closer call than it seems.All of that is to say that I’m skeptical that even this deep intervention into the Play Store is going to work; Google is right that it was there first, and that advantage and userbase matters most.Many of the same points apply to the chance to use third-party payment methods in an app. Implementing that will be a lot of work, for a benefit that will only last for three years. Once again, it will definitely be worth it for games selling consumables. The calculus for subscription-based apps, however, is even more daunting: the goal for any subscription-based app is to keep customers for the long-haul, but what if in three years they have to try and transition the consumer back to Google Play billing? That sounds like a recipe for churn that will cost much more than whatever money they saved in the meantime. The lack of long-term clarity on this point seems like a real miss by the judge, which itself speaks to one of the core problems with antitrust jurisdiction: judges aren’t qualified to be product designers!In summary, I think that these changes will be good for the short-term profits of certain type of games, and kind of a dud everywhere else. I just don’t think a three year window provides enough upside to incentivize most developers to join third-party app stores, and the churn risk stemming from a rule reversion will have the same chilling effect on implementing different billing systems.I don’t really blame Judge Donato for this; I concluded years ago that the network effects of the App Store, combined with U.S. antitrust precedent, meant there really wasn’t a feasible way to change the App Store from the outside. The only real hope was toconvince Apple and Google that they should operate differently. I concluded 2021’sApp Store Argumentsthusly:What I wish would happen — and yes, I know this is naive and stupid and probably fruitless — is that Apple would just give the slightest bit of ground. Yes, the company has the right to earn a profit from its IP, and yes, it created the market that developers want to take advantage of, and yes, the new generation of creators experimenting with new kinds of monetization only make sense in an iPhone world, but must Apple claim it all?Let developers own their apps, including telling users about their websites, and let creatives build relationships with their fans instead of intermediating everything. And, for what it’s worth, continue controlling games: I do think the App Store is a safer model, particularly for kids, and the fact of the matter is that consoles have the same rules. The entire economy, though, is more than a game, and the real position of strength is unlocking the full potential of the iPhone ecosystem, instead of demanding every dime, deadweight loss be damned.In this case we now have the exact opposite: games will take advantage of this injunction, and everyone else will probably just stick to the status quo. Google may have lost this case, but network effects remain undefeated.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)EmailGet notified about new ArticlesSign UpPlease verify your email address to proceed.RelatedThe Apple v. Epic DecisionDateMonday, September 13, 2021Tech and AntitrustDateMonday, June 10, 2019Antitrust and AggregationDateTuesday, April 26, 2016←U.S. Communications Hacked, The History of CALEA, Encryption and BackdoorsTesla’s Robotaxi Event, Tesla Self-Driving 12.5 Experience, Starlink and Airlines→ Listen to this post:Your browser does not support the audio element.Good morning,Due to a total brain fart by me — I’ve explained this correctly in the past! — my explanation of key exchanges inyesterday’s Updatewas backwards. The message sender uses a public key sent by the recipient to encrypt a message, who then decrypts the message using their private key (I said the sender uses their own key). My apologies for the mistake, and thanks to the (many) readers who corrected me!On to the Update:Google’s Play Store RemediesFrom theWall Street Journal:A judge ordered Google to make it easier for developers of mobile-app stores to compete on phones and tablets that use the company’s Android software, a blow to the search giant as it navigates numerous legal threats.The injunction issued Monday by U.S. District Judge James Donato is the result of Google losing an antitrust case—brought by “Fortnite” developer Epic Games—during a jury trial last December. Epic, which operates its own app store, argued that Google used its power over Android to take excess profits from app developers through its Play Store. Google has said it plans to appeal the ruling.Donato ordered Google to allow third parties to access the company’s Play Store catalog of apps to build competing offerings. He also barred Google from paying incentives to app developers to release an app first or exclusively on the Play Store, as well as to device manufacturers to pre-install the Play Store in a specific location or not pre-install a competing app store.The injunction is set to take effect next month, with many of the remedies lasting three years. In a blog post, Google’s vice president of regulatory affairs said the company will “ask the courts to pause implementing the remedies to maintain a consistent and safe experience for users and developers as the legal process moves forward.”To quickly refresh your memory, this case was the sister case to the Apple-Epic case, which Apple mostly won;I expected Google to be much more at riskandindeed they were, for reasons thatJudge James Donato laid out in July:Google says that it doesn’t matter that there are multiple brands of Android devices because “Google generates significant revenue from Android devices.” Even taking that as true for discussion purposes, it hardly explains why many different and competing OEM brands should be treated as a single brand. Google certainly did not present any evidence, or case law or other authority, in support of that proposition…This case also differs from the Apple case in that the Apple App Store is the only app store for iOS devices, which is not true for Android devices. Substantial evidence was presented at trial that multiple Android app stores can be, and on occasion have been, available to consumers. Google’s efforts to suppress rival app stores was another key theme at trial. To that end, an internal Google document asked the “existential question”: “How do we continue to keep Play as the preeminent distribution platform for Android?” Other documents referred to a “market” consisting of Android app developers only, and spoke of “store rivals” that were Android app stores. Google’s CEO, Sundar Pichai, testified that each Android OEM “had the potential to have an app store” which “would compete with Google Play.”Google wants the same control of Android that Apple has, while operating a licensable operating system for third parties. However, you can’t have both! Apple is able to dictate terms for iOS to a much greater extent than Google can for Android precisely because they own the entire thing; Google wants the benefit of “openness” and commoditizing OEMs without giving up control. The only way to accomplish that, though, is through contracts and deals that were found to be illegal.One thing worth pointing out is that Google is right that the market definition in this case is completely different than the market definition in the Apple case; Judge Donato dismissed that concern, but I could certainly see it being an issue at appeal.The InjunctionJudge Donato issuedanother opinionyesterday explaining his goals with the injunction, the specifics of which I will get to below. This is the key section:The consequences to be remediated are intertwined with the network effects of Google’s dominant position in the relevant markets…Even a corporate behemoth like Amazon could not compete with the Google Play Store due to network effects. Consequently, the injunction must overcome the effects by providing access to the catalog of Play Store apps for a period of time sufficient to give rival stores a fair opportunity to establish themselves. This will be three years on the terms stated in the injunction.Google says that any network effects in the relevant market are attributable to its role as a first mover in the markets, and so are not subject to remediation. The point is not well taken. The network effects presented during trial are a feature of any two-sided market such as the Google Play Store. Although Google may legitimately claim some early mover advantage, it was not entitled to maintain and magnify network effects, and thereby entrench its dominant position, through the anticompetitive conduct found by the jury…In effect, Google unfairly enhanced its network effects in a way that would not have happened but for its anticompetitive conduct. This is why the injunction must not only prohibit the specific anticompetitive conduct that Google engaged in, but also undo the consequence of Google’s ill-gotten gains…The injunction must bridge the moat.To that end, here is what is covered inthe injunction, which starts on November 1, 2024, and runs for three years:Google may not share Google Play Store revenue with any entity that distributes Android apps or has stated that it is considering doing so. In other words, no buying off potential competitors.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on exclusive app distribution through the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share on a developer not launching an alternative App Store, or in diminishing the functionality of apps in other stores relative to the app in the Play Store.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs for default placement of the Play Store on their devices.Google may not condition any payment or revenue share with OEMs to not install alternative app stores.Google may not require the use of Google Play billing in apps distributed through the Play Store, nor prohibit the use of alternative billing systems.Google may not prohibit a developer from informing users about billing options on the web, nor prohibit developers from providing links to that effect.Google has eight months to implement the following (at which point the three-year clock will start):Google must permit third-party app stores to access the Google Play Store’s catalog of apps so that they may offer them to end users if the app store developer does not have their own relationship with the relevant developers. All apps downloaded from Google will be monetized by Google, and Play Store developers can opt out of being listed in third-party app stores.Google may not prohibit the distribution of third-party app stores through the Play Store, but can implement reasonable security measures.Google — rightly! — pointed out that a lot of these requirements, particularly the opening of the Play Store catalog, are a “duty to deal”, the refusal of which is not an antitrust violation. Judge Donato countered:The Court has fully agreed for the duration of this case that a refusal to deal with a potential rival may not be the basis of antitrust liability. The jury was expressly instructed on that point. Nothing in the verdict or the evidence at trial condemned Google for not extending a helping hand to a rival.The problem for Google is that the case is now in the remedy phase, not the liability phase. The question at hand is not whether Google violated the antitrust laws by failing to aid rivals, but what measures are necessary to restore fair competition in the face of the barriers found by the jury. The jury heard abundant evidence that Google used a variety of means to ensure that the Play Store was the only fully developed Android app marketplace for users and developers. This evidence included the MADA and RSA agreements and Google’s conditioning of access by OEMs to Google’s Android services on preinstallation of the Google Play Store on the home screen of Android devices. The use of burdensome “scare screens” to discourage sideloading of apps is another example of evidence heard by the jury. Requiring Google to allow other app stores to be distributed through the Play Store for a discrete period is a modest step to correct the consequence of unlawfully preventing rival stores from reaching users and developers.I think it’s a reasonable point, although Google will certainly challenge this on appeal. What it speaks to more than anything isan observation I madein the context of Google’s loss in the default search case, which is that the question of remedies truly show the fundamental paradox at the heart of antitrust: any attempt to fix alleged distortion is itself distortive, and necessitates the violation of the guilty party’s property rights.The Power of Network EffectsThat noted, I think there is a reasonable chance the particulars of this injunction don’t work out the way Judge Donato hopes. You can understand his intention: it is impossible to stand up an alternative app store without actually having apps; that is what undergirds opening up the Play Store catalog to third party apps. The question, however, is what is going to happen in three years, when the injunction ends? Are all of these alternative app stores going to suddenly be bereft of apps?This gets at another key point about all of these app store disputes: not all developers are hurt by the status quo. You can certainly see Epic’s point of view: they want to sell in-app purchases without giving 30% to Google; any developer whose business model is based on those sort of consumables will presumably be open to making their apps available across the various app stores that pop up.A huge number of apps, though, aren’t monetized through in-app purchase at all: they are free, or monetize through something other than digital consumables. For all of these developers new app stores are nothing more than a cost center; not only is it hard to see why they would want to do the work to have a direct relationship with third party app stores, but it would actually be in their interest to opt out of being made available for the three year period where that is an option. Indeed, it’s in their interest to kill this entire movement.Subscription-based apps are in the middle, but I would suspect lean more towards preferring the current status quo. Google (1) charges 15% for the first $1 million in subscription revenue in a year and past that (2) charges 30% for the first year of a subscription and 15% thereafter. The net result is that a lot of small developers would probably find it easier to just stick with the Play Store, particularly since their burden in terms of implementing new payment systems would be higher than the free apps. Large developers may see the value in doing that work, but it’s a closer call than it seems.All of that is to say that I’m skeptical that even this deep intervention into the Play Store is going to work; Google is right that it was there first, and that advantage and userbase matters most.Many of the same points apply to the chance to use third-party payment methods in an app. Implementing that will be a lot of work, for a benefit that will only last for three years. Once again, it will definitely be worth it for games selling consumables. The calculus for subscription-based apps, however, is even more daunting: the goal for any subscription-based app is to keep customers for the long-haul, but what if in three years they have to try and transition the consumer back to Google Play billing? That sounds like a recipe for churn that will cost much more than whatever money they saved in the meantime. The lack of long-term clarity on this point seems like a real miss by the judge, which itself speaks to one of the core problems with antitrust jurisdiction: judges aren’t qualified to be product designers!In summary, I think that these changes will be good for the short-term profits of certain type of games, and kind of a dud everywhere else. I just don’t think a three year window provides enough upside to incentivize most developers to join third-party app stores, and the churn risk stemming from a rule reversion will have the same chilling effect on implementing different billing systems.I don’t really blame Judge Donato for this; I concluded years ago that the network effects of the App Store, combined with U.S. antitrust precedent, meant there really wasn’t a feasible way to change the App Store from the outside. The only real hope was toconvince Apple and Google that they should operate differently. I concluded 2021’sApp Store Argumentsthusly:What I wish would happen — and yes, I know this is naive and stupid and probably fruitless — is that Apple would just give the slightest bit of ground. Yes, the company has the right to earn a profit from its IP, and yes, it created the market that developers want to take advantage of, and yes, the new generation of creators experimenting with new kinds of monetization only make sense in an iPhone world, but must Apple claim it all?Let developers own their apps, including telling users about their websites, and let creatives build relationships with their fans instead of intermediating everything. And, for what it’s worth, continue controlling games: I do think the App Store is a safer model, particularly for kids, and the fact of the matter is that consoles have the same rules. The entire economy, though, is more than a game, and the real position of strength is unlocking the full potential of the iPhone ecosystem, instead of demanding every dime, deadweight loss be damned.In this case we now have the exact opposite: games will take advantage of this injunction, and everyone else will probably just stick to the status quo. Google may have lost this case, but network effects remain undefeated.This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player,visit Stratechery.The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Due to a total brain fart by me — I’ve explained this correctly in the past! — my explanation of key exchanges inyesterday’s Updatewas backwards. The message sender uses a public key sent by the recipient to encrypt a message, who then decrypts the message using their private key (I said the sender uses their own key). My apologies for the mistake, and thanks to the (many) readers who corrected me! A judge ordered Google to make it easier for developers of mobile-app stores to compete on phones and tablets that use the company’s Android software, a blow to the search giant as it navigates numerous legal threats. The injunction issued Monday by U.S. District Judge James Donato is the result of Google losing an antitrust case—brought by “Fortnite” developer Epic Games—during a jury trial last December. Epic, which operates its own app store, argued that Google used its power over Android to take excess profits from app developers through its Play Store. Google has said it plans to appeal the ruling. Donato ordered Google to allow third parties to access the company’s Play Store catalog of apps to build competing offerings. He also barred Google from paying incentives to app developers to release an app first or exclusively on the Play Store, as well as to device manufacturers to pre-install the Play Store in a specific location or not pre-install a competing app store. The injunction is set to take effect next month, with many of the remedies lasting three years. In a blog post, Google’s vice president of regulatory affairs said the company will “ask the courts to pause implementing the remedies to maintain a consistent and safe experience for users and developers as the legal process moves forward.” To quickly refresh your memory, this case was the sister case to the Apple-Epic case, which Apple mostly won;I expected Google to be much more at riskandindeed they were, for reasons thatJudge James Donato laid out in July: Google says that it doesn’t matter that there are multiple brands of Android devices because “Google generates significant revenue from Android devices.” Even taking that as true for discussion purposes, it hardly explains why many different and competing OEM brands should be treated as a single brand. Google certainly did not present any evidence, or case law or other authority, in support of that proposition… This case also differs from the Apple case in that the Apple App Store is the only app store for iOS devices, which is not true for Android devices. Substantial evidence was presented at trial that multiple Android app stores can be, and on occasion have been, available to consumers. Google’s efforts to suppress rival app stores was another key theme at trial. To that end, an internal Google document asked the “existential question”: “How do we continue to keep Play as the preeminent distribution platform for Android?” Other documents referred to a “market” consisting of Android app developers only, and spoke of “store rivals” that were Android app stores. Google’s CEO, Sundar Pichai, testified that each Android OEM “had the potential to have an app store” which “would compete with Google Play.” Google wants the same control of Android that Apple has, while operating a licensable operating system for third parties. However, you can’t have both! Apple is able to dictate terms for iOS to a much greater extent than Google can for Android precisely because they own the entire thing; Google wants the benefit of “openness” and commoditizing OEMs without giving up control. The only way to accomplish that, though, is through contracts and deals that were found to be illegal. One thing worth pointing out is that Google is right that the market definition in this case is completely different than the market definition in the Apple case; Judge Donato dismissed that concern, but I could certainly see it being an issue at appeal. The consequences to be remediated are intertwined with the network effects of Google’s dominant position in the relevant markets…Even a corporate behemoth like Amazon could not compete with the Google Play Store due to network effects. Consequently, the injunction must overcome the effects by providing access to the catalog of Play Store apps for a period of time sufficient to give rival stores a fair opportunity to establish themselves. This will be three years on the terms stated in the injunction. Google says that any network effects in the relevant market are attributable to its role as a first mover in the markets, and so are not subject to remediation. The point is not well taken. The network effects presented during trial are a feature of any two-sided market such as the Google Play Store. Although Google may legitimately claim some early mover advantage, it was not entitled to maintain and magnify network effects, and thereby entrench its dominant position, through the anticompetitive conduct found by the jury… In effect, Google unfairly enhanced its network effects in a way that would not have happened but for its anticompetitive conduct. This is why the injunction must not only prohibit the specific anticompetitive conduct that Google engaged in, but also undo the consequence of Google’s ill-gotten gains…The injunction must bridge the moat. Google — rightly! — pointed out that a lot of these requirements, particularly the opening of the Play Store catalog, are a “duty to deal”, the refusal of which is not an antitrust violation. Judge Donato countered: The Court has fully agreed for the duration of this case that a refusal to deal with a potential rival may not be the basis of antitrust liability. The jury was expressly instructed on that point. Nothing in the verdict or the evidence at trial condemned Google for not extending a helping hand to a rival. The problem for Google is that the case is now in the remedy phase, not the liability phase. The question at hand is not whether Google violated the antitrust laws by failing to aid rivals, but what measures are necessary to restore fair competition in the face of the barriers found by the jury. The jury heard abundant evidence that Google used a variety of means to ensure that the Play Store was the only fully developed Android app marketplace for users and developers. This evidence included the MADA and RSA agreements and Google’s conditioning of access by OEMs to Google’s Android services on preinstallation of the Google Play Store on the home screen of Android devices. The use of burdensome “scare screens” to discourage sideloading of apps is another example of evidence heard by the jury. Requiring Google to allow other app stores to be distributed through the Play Store for a discrete period is a modest step to correct the consequence of unlawfully preventing rival stores from reaching users and developers. I think it’s a reasonable point, although Google will certainly challenge this on appeal. What it speaks to more than anything isan observation I madein the context of Google’s loss in the default search case, which is that the question of remedies truly show the fundamental paradox at the heart of antitrust: any attempt to fix alleged distortion is itself distortive, and necessitates the violation of the guilty party’s property rights. That noted, I think there is a reasonable chance the particulars of this injunction don’t work out the way Judge Donato hopes. You can understand his intention: it is impossible to stand up an alternative app store without actually having apps; that is what undergirds opening up the Play Store catalog to third party apps. The question, however, is what is going to happen in three years, when the injunction ends? Are all of these alternative app stores going to suddenly be bereft of apps? This gets at another key point about all of these app store disputes: not all developers are hurt by the status quo. You can certainly see Epic’s point of view: they want to sell in-app purchases without giving 30% to Google; any developer whose business model is based on those sort of consumables will presumably be open to making their apps available across the various app stores that pop up. A huge number of apps, though, aren’t monetized through in-app purchase at all: they are free, or monetize through something other than digital consumables. For all of these developers new app stores are nothing more than a cost center; not only is it hard to see why they would want to do the work to have a direct relationship with third party app stores, but it would actually be in their interest to opt out of being made available for the three year period where that is an option. Indeed, it’s in their interest to kill this entire movement. Subscription-based apps are in the middle, but I would suspect lean more towards preferring the current status quo. Google (1) charges 15% for the first $1 million in subscription revenue in a year and past that (2) charges 30% for the first year of a subscription and 15% thereafter. The net result is that a lot of small developers would probably find it easier to just stick with the Play Store, particularly since their burden in terms of implementing new payment systems would be higher than the free apps. Large developers may see the value in doing that work, but it’s a closer call than it seems. Many of the same points apply to the chance to use third-party payment methods in an app. Implementing that will be a lot of work, for a benefit that will only last for three years. Once again, it will definitely be worth it for games selling consumables. The calculus for subscription-based apps, however, is even more daunting: the goal for any subscription-based app is to keep customers for the long-haul, but what if in three years they have to try and transition the consumer back to Google Play billing? That sounds like a recipe for churn that will cost much more than whatever money they saved in the meantime. The lack of long-term clarity on this point seems like a real miss by the judge, which itself speaks to one of the core problems with antitrust jurisdiction: judges aren’t qualified to be product designers! In summary, I think that these changes will be good for the short-term profits of certain type of games, and kind of a dud everywhere else. I just don’t think a three year window provides enough upside to incentivize most developers to join third-party app stores, and the churn risk stemming from a rule reversion will have the same chilling effect on implementing different billing systems. I don’t really blame Judge Donato for this; I concluded years ago that the network effects of the App Store, combined with U.S. antitrust precedent, meant there really wasn’t a feasible way to change the App Store from the outside. The only real hope was toconvince Apple and Google that they should operate differently. I concluded 2021’sApp Store Argumentsthusly: What I wish would happen — and yes, I know this is naive and stupid and probably fruitless — is that Apple would just give the slightest bit of ground. Yes, the company has the right to earn a profit from its IP, and yes, it created the market that developers want to take advantage of, and yes, the new generation of creators experimenting with new kinds of monetization only make sense in an iPhone world, but must Apple claim it all? Let developers own their apps, including telling users about their websites, and let creatives build relationships with their fans instead of intermediating everything. And, for what it’s worth, continue controlling games: I do think the App Store is a safer model, particularly for kids, and the fact of the matter is that consoles have the same rules. The entire economy, though, is more than a game, and the real position of strength is unlocking the full potential of the iPhone ecosystem, instead of demanding every dime, deadweight loss be damned. In this case we now have the exact opposite: games will take advantage of this injunction, and everyone else will probably just stick to the status quo. Google may have lost this case, but network effects remain undefeated. The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email ShareClick to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)FacebookClick to share on X (Opens in new window)XClick to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)LinkedInClick to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Email SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All SearchStratecheryPlusUpdatesNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View AllMore by Ben ThompsonYear in ReviewThe most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year.View AllAll ArticlesExplore all free articles on Stratechery.View AllAll ContentExplore all posts on Stratechery.View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025 StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All©Stratechery LLC2025 |Terms of Service|Privacy PolicyProudly powered by WordPress.Hosted by Pressable. StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View AllStratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheStratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All StratecheryPlusUpdateSNvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025View All Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal SpecificsMonday, September 22, 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural BandThursday, September 18, 2025An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025 StratecheryPlusPodcastsThe iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe The iPhone AirDithering|Sep 23The iPhone AirBrainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 22Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots MoreMedia Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips CatastropheGreatest Of All Talk|Sep 19Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe StratecheryPlusInterviewsAn Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025View All An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for CreatorsWednesday, September 17, 2025An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. GovernmentThursday, September 11, 2025An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawlThursday, September 4, 2025