# [Practical AI] Threat modeling LLM apps

**Source**: https://share.transistor.fm/s/6947239f
**Atlas ID**: 229846
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.017139

---

If you have questions at the intersection of Cybersecurity and AI, you need to know Donato at WithSecure! Donato has been threat modeling AI applications and seriously applying those models in his day-to-day work. He joins us in this episode to discuss his LLM application security canvas, prompt injections, alignment, and more. Join the discussion Changelog++ members save 9 minutes on this episode because they made the ads disappear. Join today! Sponsors: Assembly AI – Turn voice data into summaries with AssemblyAI’s leading Speech AI models. Built by AI experts, their Speech AI models include accurate speech-to-text for voice data (such as calls, virtual meetings, and podcasts), speaker detection, sentiment analysis, chapter detection, PII redaction, and more. Porkbun – Go to porkbun.com to get .app, .dev, or .foo domain names at Porkbun for only $1 for the first year! Changelog News – A podcast+newsletter combo that’s brief, entertaining & always on-point. Subscribe today . Featuring: Donato Capitella – Website Daniel Whitenack – Website , GitHub , X Show Notes: The Security Canvas for LLM Applications LLM Security Chronicles Playlist on YouTube Should you let ChatGPT control your browser? When your AI assistant has an evil twin Pliny the Liberator - jailbreak guru Something missing or broken? PRs welcome! Creators and Guests Host Daniel Whitenack Guest Donato Capitella What is Practical AI? Making artificial intelligence practical, productive & accessible to everyone. Practical AI is a show in which technology professionals, business people, students, enthusiasts, and expert guests engage in lively discussions about Artificial Intelligence and related topics (Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Neural Networks, GANs, MLOps, AIOps, LLMs & more). The focus is on productive implementations and real-world scenarios that are accessible to everyone. If you want to keep up with the latest advances in AI, while keeping one foot in the real world, then this is the show for you!