# [Practical AI] Pausing to think about scikit-learn & OpenAI o1

**Source**: https://share.transistor.fm/s/35fff0ca
**Atlas ID**: 229845
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.017001

---

Recently the company stewarding the open source library scikit-learn announced their seed funding. Also, OpenAI released “o1” with new behavior in which it pauses to “think” about complex tasks. Chris and Daniel take some time to do their own thinking about o1 and the contrast to the scikit-learn ecosystem, which has the goal to promote “data science that you own.” Join the discussion Changelog++ members save 9 minutes on this episode because they made the ads disappear. Join today! Sponsors: Assembly AI – Turn voice data into summaries with AssemblyAI’s leading Speech AI models. Built by AI experts, their Speech AI models include accurate speech-to-text for voice data (such as calls, virtual meetings, and podcasts), speaker detection, sentiment analysis, chapter detection, PII redaction, and more. Fly.io – The home of Changelog.com — Deploy your apps close to your users — global Anycast load-balancing, zero-configuration private networking, hardware isolation, and instant WireGuard VPN connections. Push-button deployments that scale to thousands of instances. Check out the speedrun to get started in minutes. Speakeasy – Production-ready, enterprise-resilient, best-in-class SDKs crafted in minutes. Speakeasy takes care of the entire SDK workflow to save you significant time, delivering SDKs to your customers in minutes with just a few clicks! Create your first SDK for free! Featuring: Chris Benson – Website , GitHub , LinkedIn , X Daniel Whitenack – Website , GitHub , X Show Notes: Probabl seed funding announcement OpenAI o1 announcement Purdue Data4Good competition MLOps Community homepage and Slack workspace Latent Space homepage and Discord server Join the Practical AI community — it’s free! Connect with us in the #practicalai Slack channel. The community is here for you as a place to below, to bounce ideas around, or to get feedback on a conference to attend or talk you’d like to give. Something missing or broken? PRs welcome! Creators and Guests Host Chris Benson Host Daniel Whitenack What is Practical AI? Making artificial intelligence practical, productive & accessible to everyone. Practical AI is a show in which technology professionals, business people, students, enthusiasts, and expert guests engage in lively discussions about Artificial Intelligence and related topics (Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Neural Networks, GANs, MLOps, AIOps, LLMs & more). The focus is on productive implementations and real-world scenarios that are accessible to everyone. If you want to keep up with the latest advances in AI, while keeping one foot in the real world, then this is the show for you!