# [Practical AI] AI is creating never before heard sounds! 🎵

**Source**: https://share.transistor.fm/s/8a4f8e44
**Atlas ID**: 229870
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.027183

---

[1710.11153] Onsets and Frames: Dual-Objective Piano Transcription Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions , and all contributors. Donate > cs > arXiv:1710.11153 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu quick links Login Help Pages About Computer Science > Sound arXiv:1710.11153 (cs) [Submitted on 30 Oct 2017 ( v1 ), last revised 5 Jun 2018 (this version, v2)] Title: Onsets and Frames: Dual-Objective Piano Transcription Authors: Curtis Hawthorne , Erich Elsen , Jialin Song , Adam Roberts , Ian Simon , Colin Raffel , Jesse Engel , Sageev Oore , Douglas Eck View a PDF of the paper titled Onsets and Frames: Dual-Objective Piano Transcription, by Curtis Hawthorne and 8 other authors View PDF Abstract: We advance the state of the art in polyphonic piano music transcription by using a deep convolutional and recurrent neural network which is trained to jointly predict onsets and frames. Our model predicts pitch onset events and then uses those predictions to condition framewise pitch predictions. During inference, we restrict the predictions from the framewise detector by not allowing a new note to start unless the onset detector also agrees that an onset for that pitch is present in the frame. We focus on improving onsets and offsets together instead of either in isolation as we believe this correlates better with human musical perception. Our approach results in over a 100% relative improvement in note F1 score (with offsets) on the MAPS dataset. Furthermore, we extend the model to predict relative velocities of normalized audio which results in more natural-sounding transcriptions. Comments: Examples available at this https URL Subjects: Sound (cs.SD) ; Machine Learning (cs.LG); Audio and Speech Processing (eess.AS); Machine Learning (stat.ML) Cite as: arXiv:1710.11153 [cs.SD] (or arXiv:1710.11153v2 [cs.SD] for this version) https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1710.11153 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite Submission history From: Curtis Hawthorne [ view email ] [v1] Mon, 30 Oct 2017 18:05:49 UTC (47 KB) [v2] Tue, 5 Jun 2018 04:20:28 UTC (203 KB) Full-text links: Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Onsets and Frames: Dual-Objective Piano Transcription, by Curtis Hawthorne and 8 other authors View PDF TeX Source Other Formats view license Current browse context: cs.SD < prev | next > new | recent | 2017-10 Change to browse by: cs cs.LG eess eess.AS stat stat.ML References & Citations NASA ADS Google Scholar Semantic Scholar DBLP - CS Bibliography listing | bibtex Curtis Hawthorne Erich Elsen Jialin Song Adam Roberts Ian Simon … a export BibTeX citation Loading... BibTeX formatted citation × loading... Data provided by: Bookmark Bibliographic Tools Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer ( What is the Explorer? ) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers ( What is Connected Papers? ) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps ( What is Litmaps? ) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations ( What are Smart Citations? ) Code, Data, Media Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv ( What is alphaXiv? ) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers ( What is CatalyzeX? ) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub ( What is DagsHub? ) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub ( What is GotitPub? ) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face ( What is Huggingface? ) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code ( What is Papers with Code? ) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast ( What is ScienceCast? ) Demos Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate ( What is Replicate? ) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces ( What is Spaces? ) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI ( What is TXYZ.AI? ) Related Papers Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower ( What are Influence Flowers? ) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender ( What is CORE? ) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs . Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? ) About Help contact arXiv Click here to contact arXiv Contact subscribe to arXiv mailings Click here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status Get status notifications via email or slack