# [Stratechery] Nvidia GTC and ASICs, The Power Constraint, The Pareto Frontier

**Source**: https://stratechery.com/2025/nvidia-gtc-and-asics-the-power-constraint-the-pareto-frontier/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.gEdJYCzBKJqE_3OrEjXQXrld6MqEzU1lvPW8qazzTF8rDjKrOz8Eeglzs4QfGxtEaB8Mn8vscDXMwyA0jL9KqrTGkhuqfcZ-oR9tH_G1bgYl6bS8-aTo8cyFq7rJvwxtUJM8GzoLt30_YhELDnmVJH0O4wbQULfH92zyJ_0gbx1AGBcsmqFidhu66V0LVYckB5IWt2iIfWwq1WJ99LIFi30CGxVDyJBE0HZ3ZKhZEFFyLr_DWQePFE-uiXbh37yQ5BzAL-Oy5w7NlsbvA8x88qu0ccX8B7fj9Co4Jz59_3LvROsPzA0JFxh4N6wQPzYbLnz0HTndc9ADMTu_JJ91UA
**Atlas ID**: 229876
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.029947

---

Nvidia GTC and ASICs, The Power Constraint, The Pareto Frontier Wednesday, March 19, 2025 Listen to Podcast Listen to this post: Your browser does not support the audio element. Good morning, Jon at Asianometry has a fun video that is very pertinent to topics like data centers and power consumption, which I get into below: Why the Chips Get Hot . Plus, the history of 4G LTE and what happened to capacitors in 2022 . On to the Update: Nvidia GTC From Bloomberg : Jensen Huang, Nvidia Corp.’s chief executive officer, used his annual developer conference to address concerns that the cost of artificial intelligence computing is spiraling out of control. At the event, Huang unveiled more powerful chips and related technology that he said would provide a clearer payoff to customers. The lineup includes a successor to Nvidia’s flagship AI processor called the Blackwell Ultra, as well as additional generations stretching into 2027. Huang also unveiled Dynamo-branded software that will fine-tune existing and future equipment, making it more efficient and profitable. “It is essentially the operating system of an AI factory,” Huang said during a roughly two-hour presentation at the company’s annual GTC event in San Jose, California, which touched on everything from robot technology to personal supercomputers. The conference, once a little-known gathering of developers, has become a closely watched event since Nvidia assumed a central role in AI — with the tech world and Wall Street taking its cues from the presentation. Huang introduced a variety of hardware, software and services during his speech, though there were no bombshell revelations for investors. The stock closed down more than 3% on Tuesday. I thought this was a very interesting keynote — much more interesting than last year’s rock show — as Huang took on looming nervousness about ASIC’s head-on. To quickly refresh your memory, ASIC stands for “Application-Specific Integrated Circuit”; it’s a chip that is custom-made for a specific task. The level of specificity can vary: Google’s TPUs and Amazon’s Trainium chips are ASICs, and thus more limited than Nvidia GPUs, but still somewhat generalizable, and so are bitcoin chips that are tuned to one specific algorithm and not generalizable at all (you could also argue that GPUs themselves are a type of ASIC, at least relative to a CPU). The concern for Nvidia is that while they have a lock on training, thanks to the scalability of their offerings, large cloud providers in particular will see the value in paying a lot less for ASICs for inference, particularly as inference becomes a larger and larger share of the AI market. The argument for inference a year ago was pretty straightforward: transformers are nearly a decade old, and appear to be the foundational architecture for AI for the foreseeable future. Everyone will load a model, put in a prompt, and get an answer out; you can design a chip that does exactly that for a lot less than you’ll pay Nvidia for a more generalized solution. The big change over the last year is the rise of reasoning models, starting with OpenAI’s o1 , and for Huang reasoning formed the foundation of two arguments he put forward as to why Nvidia GPUs were a better option than ASICs. Here was how he introduced reasoning: This last year, this is where almost the entire world got it wrong. The computation requirement, the scaling law of AI, is more resilient and in fact, hyper-accelerated. The amount of computation we need at this point as a result of agentic AI, as a result of reasoning, is easily 100 times more than we thought we needed at this time last year and let’s reason about why that’s true. The first part is let’s just go from what the AI can do, let me work backwards. Agentic AI as I mentioned at it’s foundation is reasoning. We now have AIs that can reason, which is fundamentally about breaking a problem down step-by-step, maybe it approaches in a few different ways and selects the best answer, maybe it solves the same problem in a variety of ways and makes sure it has the same answer, consistency checking, and maybe when it’s done deriving the answer, it plugs it back into the equation, maybe a quadratic equation, to confirm that in fact it’s the right answer, instead of it just one shot blurbing it out. Remember, two years ago when we started working with ChatGPT, a miracle as it was, many complicated questions and many simple questions it simply can’t get right, and understandably so. It took a one shot, whatever it learned by studying pre-trained data, whatever it saw from other experiences, pre-trained data, it does a one shot, blurbs it out, like a savant. Now we have AIs that can reason step-by-step by step using a technology called chain of thought, best of N, consistency checking, a variety of different path planning, a variety of different techniques, we now have AIs that can reason. Break a problem down, reason, step-by-step-by-step. Well you can imagine as a result, the number of tokens we generate and the fundamental technology of AI is still the same. Generate the next token, predict the next token, it’s just the next token now makes up step one, and the next token after that after it generates step one, that step one has gone into the input of the AI again as it generates step two, and step three, and step four. So instead of just generating one token or one word after the next, it generates a sequence of words that represents a step of reasoning. The amount of tokens that’s generated as a result is substantially increased, and I’ll show you in a second, easily a hundred times more. Huang goes on to explain his math , and I think it’s reasonable. Still, one could make the case that this only strengthens the thesis that inference costs will outpace training costs, increasing the incentives for ASICs; Huang made two arguments as to why that thesis is wrong. Both of Huang’s arguments are contained in this 28 minute segment of the keynote; I’m posting the video, and I strongly encourage you to watch it; the full transcript is posted at the end of this email if you prefer to read, but it is better with Huang’s graphs. The Power Constraint The first argument actually comes towards the end of the video; here’s the key segment: Blackwell is way, way better than Hopper. And remember, this is not iso chips, this is iso power. This is ultimate Moore’s Law. This is what Moore’s Law was always about in the past and now here we are, 25x in one generation as iso power. This is not iso chips, it’s not iso transistors — iso power, the ultimate limiter. There’s only so much energy we can get into a data center. When Huang says “iso power” he means that power is the constraint; the question is how many tokens can you generate given a fixed power envelope, and Blackwell can generate a lot more. These were the numbers Huang gave for a 1 MW data center: What this means is that the first order of business for an ASIC maker is to match that level of efficiency. That, though, means keeping up with Nvidia’s product development cadence; The Information has a post about Amazon offering instances using its latest Trainium ASIC at a significant discount to the H100. Huang, though, spent this keynote insulting the H100! You can almost hear him speaking to Amazon directly: you spent all this money, and are offering these huge discounts, just to entice developers to lock themselves into an inferior chip, even as reasoning models are going to swamp your available power generation. This is also why Huang previewed not just the next iteration of Blackwell, launching later this year, but also the next architecture, Vera Rubin, launching next year, and the iterated version of Vera Rubin, launching in 2027: This is the key slide: Huang is issuing a challenge to every cloud provider tempted to make an ASIC: do you really think that you can keep up with this, and risk running out of power capacity because your chips aren’t efficient enough? Don’t even try. The Pareto Frontier Huang’s second argument was centered around this slide: Again, I strongly recommend watching the long video above, but briefly: The Y-axis is the number of tokens that an inference server can process; the higher the throughput the greater the return on investment on a per-token basis. You maximize throughput through batching. The X-axis is the speed with which you return tokens to an individual user; this is particularly pressing for reasoning, because token generation is a serial process, which means that the time necessary for a final answer increases linearly with the number of tokens generated. If more tokens mean better answers, then you really need rapid token generation to have an acceptable user experience. The challenge is that system throughput and individual token response time are in direct opposition to each other, which Huang showed with actual numbers from Hopper and Blackwell: Huang then made two points, one explicitly, and the other implicitly. I can dis-aggregate the prefill from the decode and I could decide I want to use more GPUs for prefill, less for decode, because I’m thinking a lot. It’s agentic, I’m reading a lot of information, I’m doing deep research. And then it goes off and it does all this research, and it went off to 94 different websites and it read all this. I’m reading all this information and it formulates an answer and writes the report, it’s incredible. During that entire time, prefill is super busy and it’s not really generating that many tokens. On the other hand, when you’re chatting with the chatbot, and millions of us are doing the same thing, it is very token generation heavy, it’s very decode heavy, and so depending on the workload, we might decide to put more GPUs into decode depending on the workload, put more GPUs into prefill. The explicit point is the Deep Research example, which applies to reasoning models broadly: different parts of the reasoning process fall on different points of the curve. That, by extension, makes the implicit point: ASICs have to pick a point a point on the curve, but GPUs can cover the entire curve. The problem is that this is very hard to do! Hard, though, is the opportunity: This dynamic operation is really complicated. So I’ve just now described Pipeline Parallel, Tensor Parallel, Expert Parallel, in-flight batching, dis-aggregated inferencing, workload management and then I’ve got to take this thing called a KV cache. I’ve got to route it to the right GPU, I’ve got to manage it through all the memory hierarchies. That piece of software is insanely complicated and so today we’re announcing the Nvidia Dynamo. Nvidia Dynamo does all that, it is essentially the operating system of an AI factory. This is Nvidia at its best: using software and its scalability to make its GPUs far more powerful than the hardware is on its own, leading to the key slide for this argument: Huang’s argument is that Dynamo effectively pushes the Pareto Frontier out by dynamically allocating GPU resources to the task at hand (the rainbow colored words are all of the different ways that jobs can be batched). This is something that ASICs can’t do from a hardware perspective, and even if they could, no hyperscaler has the tightly integrated networking and leverage-able software capability to pull it off. I mentioned above that I enjoyed this keynote much more than last year; what I realize now is that I enjoyed it precisely because ASICs are a legitimate threat to Nvidia, and you know they are a legitimate threat because Nvidia produced what I think is a pretty incredible response. First, the company has stepped up its cadence of new chips, and secondly, I think that the Dynamo vision is very compelling and — if it works — may cement Nvidia’s position in inference for much longer than expected. You want great companies to do great work, not rest on their laurels, and it’s good to know that Nvidia still seems capable of doing just that. A Transcript of Huang’s Core Argument Here, once again, is the video I suggest watching, followed by the full transcript: Well the reason we wanted to do this is to solve an extreme problem, and that extreme problem a lot of people misunderstood to be easy. In fact, it is the ultimate extreme computing problem and it’s called inference. And the reason for that is very simple: inference is token generation by a factory and a factory is revenue and profit generating, or lack of. So this factory has to be built with extreme efficiency, with extreme performance, because everything about this factory directly affects your quality of service, your revenues, and your profitability. Let me show you how to read this chart because I’m going to come back to this a few more times. Basically you have two axes, on the X-axis is the Tokens-per-Second. Whenever you put a prompt into ChatGPT what comes out as tokens? Those tokens are reformulated into words, it’s more than a token per word and they’ll tokenize things like THE could be used for “the”, it could be used for “them”, it could be used for “theory”, it could be used for “theatrics”, it could be used for all kinds of — and so THE is an example of a token, they reformulate these tokens to turn into words. Well, we’ve already established that if you want your AI to be smarter, you want to generate a whole bunch of tokens. Those tokens are reasoning tokens, consistency checking tokens, coming up with a whole bunch of ideas so they can select the best of those ideas tokens and so those tokens, it might be second guessing itself, “Is this the best work you could do?”, and so it talks to itself just like we talk to ourselves and so the more tokens you generate, the smarter your AI. But if you take too long to answer a question, the customer’s not going to come back, this is no different than web search. There is a real limit to how long it can take before it comes back with a smart answer, and so you have these two dimensions that you’re fighting against. You’re trying to generate a whole bunch of tokens, but you’re trying to do it as quickly as possible. Therefore, your token rate matters. So you want your tokens-per-second for that one user to be as fast as possible. However, in computer sciences and factories, there’s a fundamental tension between latency response time and throughput and the reason is very simple. If you’re in the large high volume business, you batch up, it’s called batching, you batch up a lot of customer demand and you manufacture a certain version of it for everybody to consume later. However, from the moment that they batched up and manufacture whatever they did to the time that you consumed it, could take a long time. No different for computer science, no different for AI factories that are generating tokens and so you have these two fundamental tensions. On the one hand, you would like the customer’s quality of service to be as good as possible, smart AIs that are super fast, on the other hand, you’re trying to get your data center to produce tokens for as many people as possible so you can maximize your revenues. The perfect answer is to the upper right. Ideally the shape of that curve is a square that you could generate very fast tokens-per-person up until the limits of the factory, but no factory can do that. And so it’s probably some curve and your goal is to maximize the area under the curve, the product of X and Y and the further you push out, more likely it means the better of a factory that you’re building. Well, it turns out that in tokens-per-second for the whole factory and tokens-per-second response time, one of them requires enormous amount of computation FLOPS and then the other dimension requires an enormous amount of bandwidth and FLOPS, so this is a very difficult problem to solve. The good answer is that you should have lots of FLOPS and lots of bandwidth and lots of memory and lots of everything. That’s the best answer to start, which is the reason why this is such a great computer. You start with the most FLOPS you can, the most memory you can, the most bandwidth you can, of course the best architecture you can, the most energy efficiency you can, and you have to have a programming model that allows you to run software across all of this insanely hard so that you could do this. Now, let’s just take a look at this one demo to give you a tactical feeling of what I’m talking about: Traditional LLMs capture foundational knowledge while reasoning models help solve complex problems with thinking tokens. Here, a prompt asks to seat people around a wedding table while adhering to constraints like traditions, photogenic angles and feuding family members. Traditional LLM answers quickly with under 500 tokens. It makes mistakes in seating the guests, while the reasoning model thinks with over 8,000 tokens to come up with the correct answer. It takes a pastor to keep the peace. […] So what you see here is that we gave it a problem that requires reasoning and you saw R1 goes off into reasons about it, tries all these different scenarios and it comes back and it tests it own answer, it asks itself whether it did it right. Meanwhile, the last generation language model does a one shot. So the one shot is 439 tokens. It was fast, it was effective, but it was wrong, so it was 439 wasted tokens. On the other hand in order for you to reason about this problem — and that was actually a very simple problem — you just give it a few more difficult variables and it becomes very difficult to reason through and it took 8,000, almost 9,000 tokens and it took a lot more computation because the model’s more complex. Okay, so that’s one dimension. Before I show you some results, let me explain something else. So the answer, if you look at Blackwell, you look at the Blackwell system and it’s now the scaled up NVLink 72. The first thing that we have to do is we have to take this model and this model is not small, in the case of R1, people think R1 is small, but it’s 680 billion parameters, next generation models could be trillions of parameters, and the way that you solve that problem is you take these trillions and trillions of parameters and this model, and you distribute the workload across the whole system of GPUs. You can use Tensor Parallel, you can take one layer of the model and run it across multiple GPUs, you could take a slice of the pipeline and call that Pipeline Parallel and put that on multiple GPUs. You could take different experts and put it across different GPUs, we’ll call it Expert Parallel. The combination of Pipeline Parallelism and Tensor Parallelism and Expert Parallelism, the number of combinations is insane. And depending on the model, depending on the workload, depending on the circumstance, how you configure that computer has to change so that you can get the maximum throughput out of it. You also sometimes optimize for very low latency, sometimes you try to optimize for throughput, and so you have to do some in-flight batching, a lot of different techniques for batching and aggregating work. So the software, the operating system for these AI factories is insanely complicated. Well one of the observations, and this is a really terrific thing about having a homogenous architecture like NVLink 72, is that every single GPU could do all the things that I just described, and we observe that these reasoning models are doing a couple of phases of computing. One of the phases of computing is thinking. When you’re thinking you’re not producing a lot of tokens, you’re producing tokens that you’re maybe consuming yourself, you’re thinking maybe you’re reading, you’re digesting information, that information could be a PDF, that information could be a website. You could literally be watching a video ingesting all of that at super linear rates and you take all of that information and you then formulate the answer, formulate a plan to answer, and so that digestion of information context processing is very FLOPS intensive. On the other hand, during the next phase is called decode. So the first part we call prefill, the next phase of decode requires floating-point operations, but it requires an enormous amount of bandwidth and it’s fairly easy to calculate. If you have a model and it’s a few trillion parameters, well, it takes a few terabytes per second. Notice I was mentioning 576 terabytes per second, it takes terabytes per second to just pull the model in from HBM memory and to generate literally one token, and the reason it generates one token is because, remember, that these large language models are predicting the next token, that’s why they say the next token. It’s not predicting every single token, it’s predicting the next token. Now we have all kinds of new techniques, speculative decoding and all kinds of new techniques for doing that faster. But in the final analysis, you’re predicting the next token and so you ingest, pull in the entire model, and the context — we call it a KV cache — and then we produce one token, and then we take that one token, we put it back into our brain, we produce the next token, every single one. Every single time we do that, we take trillions of parameters in, we produce one token trillions of parameters in, produce another token, trillions of parameters in, produce another token, and notice in that demo we produced 8,600 tokens. So trillions of bytes of information, trillions of bytes of information, have been taken into our GPUs and produce one token at a time, which is fundamentally the reason why you want NVLink. NVLink gives us the ability to take all of those GPUs and turn them into one massive GPU, the ultimate scale up. The second thing is that now that everything is on NVLink, I can dis-aggregate the pre-fill from the decode and I could decide I want to use more GPUs for pre-fill, less for decode, because I’m thinking a lot. It’s agentic, I’m reading a lot of information, I’m doing deep research… So I write up and then it goes off and it does all this research, and it went off to 94 different websites and it read all this. I’m reading all this information and it formulates an answer and writes the report, it’s incredible. During that entire time, pre-fill is super busy and it’s not really generating that many tokens. On the other hand, when you’re chatting with the chatbot, and millions of us are doing the same thing, it is very token generation heavy, it’s very decode heavy, and so depending on the workload, we might decide to put more GPUs into decode depending on the workload, put more GPUs into pre-fill. Well, this dynamic operation is really complicated. So I’ve just now described Pipeline Parallel, Tensor Parallel, Expert Parallel, in-flight batching, dis-aggregated inferencing, workload management and then I’ve got to take this thing called a KV cache. I’ve got to route it to the right GPU, I’ve got to manage it through all the memory hierarchies. That piece of software is insanely complicated and so today we’re announcing the Nvidia Dynamo. Nvidia Dynamo does all that, it is essentially the operating system of an AI factory. Whereas in the past, in the way that we ran data centers, our operating system would be something like VMware and we would orchestrate, and we still do, we’re a big user. We orchestrate a whole bunch of different enterprise applications running on top of our enterprise IT. But in the future, the application is not enterprise IT, it’s agents and the operating system is not something like VMware, it’s something like Dynamo, and this operating system is running on top of not a data center, but on top of an AI factory… So now we’re going to have to wait until we scale up all this infrastructure. But in the meantime, we’ve done a whole bunch of very in-depth simulation. We have supercomputers doing simulation of our supercomputers, which makes sense, and I’m now going to show you the benefit of everything that I’ve just said. And remember, the factory diagram on the Y axis is tokens-per-second throughput of the factory and the X axis tokens-per-second of the user experience, and you want super smart AIs and you want to produce a whole bunch of them. This is Hopper and it can produce for each user, about a hundredtokens-per-second. This is eight GPUs, and it’s connected with InfiniBand and I’m normalizing it to tokens-per-second-per-megawatt. So it’s a one megawatt data center, which is not a very large AI factory, but anyhow, one megawatt, so it can produce for each user, a hundred tokens-per-second, and it can produce at this level, whatever that happens to be, a hundred thousand tokens-per-second for that one megawatt data center. Or it can produce about two-and-a-half million tokens-per-second for that AI factory if it was super batched up and the customer is willing to wait a very long time. Now, what’s that? Two-and-a-half million, how do you translate that? Remember ChatGPT is like $10 per million tokens. Let’s pretend for a second that that’s, $10 per million tokens is probably down here, I’d probably say it’s down here, but let me pretend it’s up there because two-and-a-half million, 10, so $25 million per second, does that make sense? That’s how you think through it. Or on the other hand, if it’s way down here, then the question is, so it’s a hundred thousand. Just divide that by 10, okay? $250,000 per factory per second and then 30 million seconds in a year and that translates into revenues for that one megawatt data center. And so that’s your goal. On the one hand, you would like your token rate to be as fast as possible so that you can make really smart AIs and if you have smart AIs, people pay you more money for it. On the other hand, the smarter the AI, the less you can make in volume — very sensible trade-off. This is the curve we’re trying to bend. Now, what I’m just showing you right now is the fastest computer in the world, Hopper, it’s the computer that revolutionized everything. And so how do we make that better? So the first thing that we do is we come up with Blackwell with NVLink 8, same Blackwell, that one, same compute and that one compute node with NVLink 8 using FP8. So Blackwell is just faster, bigger, more transistors, more everything, but we like to do more than that and so we introduce a new precision. It’s not quite as simple as four-bit floating-point, but using four-bit floating-point, we can quantize the model, use less energy, use less energy to do the same and as a result, when you use less energy to do the same, you could do more. Because remember, one big idea is that every single data center in the future will be power-limited, your revenues are power-limited. You could figure out what your revenues are going to be based on the power you have to work with. This is no different than many other industries and so we are now a power-limited industry, our revenues will associate with that. Well, based on that, you want to make sure you have the most energy-efficient compute architecture you can possibly get, then we scale up with NVLink 72. Does that make sense? Look at the difference between that NVLink 72 FP4 and then because our architecture is so tightly integrated and now we add Dynamo to it, Dynamo can extend that even further. Are you following me? So Dynamo also helps Hopper, but Dynamo helps Blackwell incredibly…Now notice what I put, those two shiny parts, that’s kind of where your Max Q is, that’s likely where you’ll run your factory operations. You’re trying to find that balance between maximum throughput and maximum quality of AI, smart as AI, the most of it, those two, that XY intercept is really what you’re optimizing for and that’s what it looks like if you look underneath those two squares, Blackwell is way, way better than Hopper. And remember, this is not iso chips, this is iso power. This is ultimate Moore’s Law. This is what Moore’s Law was always about in the past and now here we are, 25x in one generation as iso power. This is not iso chips, it’s not iso transistors — iso power, the ultimate limiter. There’s only so much energy we can get into a data center and so within iso power, Blackwell is 25 times. That rainbow, that’s incredible, that’s the fun part. Underneath the Pareto, the Frontier Pareto, we call it the Frontier Pareto, under the Frontier Pareto are millions of points we could have configured the data center to do. We could have paralyzed and split the work and sharded the work in a whole lot of different ways, and we found the most optimal answer, which is the Pareto, the Frontier. The Pareto Frontier. And each one of them, because of the color shows you it’s a different configuration, which is the reason why this image says very, very clearly, you want a programmable architecture that is as homogeneously fungible, as fungible as possible, because the workload changes so dramatically across the entire frontier. So here’s an example of a reasoning model and in a reasoning model, Blackwell is 40 times the performance of Hopper, straight up. Pretty amazing. I’ve said before, somebody actually asked, “Why would I say that?”, but I said before that when Blackwell starts shipping in volume, you couldn’t give Hoppers away and this is what I mean, and this makes sense. If anybody, if you’re still looking to buy a Hopper, don’t be afraid, it’s okay. I’m the chief revenue destroyer. My sales guys are going, “Oh no, don’t say that”. There are circumstances where Hopper is fine, that’s the best thing I could say about Hopper. There are circumstances where you’re fine, not many, if I have to take a swing, and so that’s kind of my point. When the technology is moving this fast and because the workload is so intense and you’re building these things, they’re factories, we really like you to invest in the right versions. Just to put it in perspective, this is what a hundred megawatt factory looks like. There’s a hundred megawatt factory, based on hoppers, you have 45,000 dyes, 1,400 racks, and it produces 300 million tokens per second. Then this is what it looks like with Blackwell — you have 86. Yeah, I know, that doesn’t make any sense. So we’re not trying to sell you less, our sales guys are going, “Jensen, you’re selling them less” — this is better. And so anyways, the more you buy, the more you save. It’s even better than that. Now, the more you buy, the more you make. Anyhow, remember everything is in the context of AI factories, and although we talk about the chips, you always start from scale up, the full scale up. What can you scale up to the maximum? This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery . The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day! Share Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Get notified about new Articles Sign Up Please verify your email address to proceed. Related 2025.12: How Nvidia Responds to a Threat Date Friday, March 21, 2025 An Interview with Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang about Manufacturing Intelligence Date Monday, March 28, 2022 Nvidia Waves and Moats Date Tuesday, March 19, 2024 ← Intel’s New CEO, Reevaluating Gelsinger, Lip-Bu Tan and Cadence An Interview with OpenAI CEO Sam Altman About Building a Consumer Tech Company → Search Stratechery Plus Updates Nvidia and Intel, Tan’s Earnings Call Negotiation, Deal Specifics Monday, September 22, 2025 Meta Ray-Ban Display, Why Less is More, Price and the Neural Band Thursday, September 18, 2025 An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for Creators Wednesday, September 17, 2025 View All Stratechery Plus Podcasts The iPhone Air Dithering | Sep 23 The iPhone Air Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots More Greatest Of All Talk | Sep 22 Brainstorming for the 2025 Top 100: A Thinner Top 10, Debates at No. 2, OKC Overload, and Lots More Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe Greatest Of All Talk | Sep 19 Media Days on the Horizon, Early Pacific Division Thoughts, More on the Clips Catastrophe Stratechery Plus Interviews An Interview with YouTube CEO Neal Mohan About Building a Stage for Creators Wednesday, September 17, 2025 An Interview with Dan Kim About Intel, Nvidia, and the U.S. Government Thursday, September 11, 2025 An Interview with Cloudflare Founder and CEO Matthew Prince About Internet History and Pay-per-crawl Thursday, September 4, 2025 View All More by Ben Thompson Year in Review The most popular and most important posts on Stratechery by year. View All All Articles Explore all free articles on Stratechery . View All All Content Explore all posts on Stratechery . View All