# [The Indicator from Planet Money] The crypto market is hot. But is it an illusion?

**Source**: https://www.npr.org/2025/09/17/nx-s1-5543415/the-crypto-market-is-hot-but-is-it-an-illusion
**Atlas ID**: 229886
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.038876

---

Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics The crypto market is hot. But is it an illusion? : The Indicator from Planet Money There has been an inordinate amount of trading activity recently in the crypto markets. But what if much of that activity was an illusion? A smokescreen? A fraud? Today on the show, we look at the practice of wash trading, and how it’s evolved in the crypto world. Related episodes: The fake market in crypto For sponsor-free episodes of The Indicator from Planet Money, subscribe to Planet Money+ via Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org . Fact-checking by Sierra Juarez . Music by Drop Electric . Find us: TikTok , Instagram , Facebook , Newsletter . The Indicator from Planet Money NPR The Indicator from Planet Money LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music Amazon Alexa RSS link The crypto market is hot. But is it an illusion? September 17, 2025 3:05 AM ET By Adrian Ma , Wailin Wong , Cooper Katz McKim , Julia Ritchey , Kate Concannon The crypto market is hot. But is it an illusion? Listen · 8:02 8:02 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5543415/nx-s1-mx-5720096" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript The Coinbase website on a smartphone arranged in New Hyde Park, New York, US, on Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2025. Base, a public blockchain Coinbase Global Inc. started, is exploring a new cryptocurrency, a move that could help raise money for the projects it underpins Gabby Jones/Bloomberg via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Gabby Jones/Bloomberg via Getty Images There has been an inordinate amount of trading activity recently in the crypto markets. But what if much of that activity was an illusion? A smokescreen? A fraud? Today on the show, we look at the practice of wash trading, and how it’s evolved in the crypto world. Related episodes: The fake market in crypto For sponsor-free episodes of The Indicator from Planet Money, subscribe to Planet Money+ via Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org . Fact-checking by Sierra Juarez . Music by Drop Electric . Find us: TikTok , Instagram , Facebook , Newsletter . Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor