# [The Ezra Klein Show] Episode 7729

**Source**: https://nytimes.com/2025/04/05/opinion/ezra-klein-podcast-paul-krugman.html
**Atlas ID**: 229997
**Migrated**: 2025-09-30T16:47:31.112712

---

The Ezra Klein Show - Podcast - Apple Podcasts The Ezra Klein Show The New York Times 4.3 (17) SOCIETY & CULTURE UPDATED WEEKLY Ezra Klein invites you into a conversation on something that matters. How do we address climate change if the political system fails to act? Has the logic of markets infiltrated too many aspects of our lives? What is the future of the Republican Party? What do psychedelics teach us about consciousness? What does sci-fi understand about our present that we miss? Can our food system be just to humans and animals alike?

Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. Latest Episode Follow Episodes 2 DAYS AGO Trump Is Building the Blue Scare This is McCarthyism 2.0.  Since Charlie Kirk’s assassination, the Trump administration has been speed-running an attack on the “radical left.” And the tactics it has been using are darkly reminiscent of the Red Scare of the 1940s and ’50s. So what can that period teach us about the current moment and what the Trump administration might do next? How far could this go?  Corey Robin is a political theorist at Brooklyn College. He’s an expert on McCarthyism and the author of the book “The Reactionary Mind,” one of the most insightful books you can read on the Trumpist right. In this conversation, he walks through what happened in the first and second Red Scares and what made him start worrying about the Trump administration. This episode contains strong language. Mentioned: Red Scare by Clay Risen “How Democrats Drove Silicon Valley Into Trump’s Arms” by Ross Douthat The Furies by Arno J. Mayer Book Recommendations: On the Slaughter by Hayim Nahman Bialik Naming Names by Victor S. Navasky Citizen Marx by Bruno Leipold Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Jack McCordick and Annie Galvin. Fact-checking by Kelsey Kudak. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld, with additional mixing by Aman Sahota and Isaac Jones. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Rollin Hu, Kristin Lin, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Special thanks to Beverly Gage and Clay Risen. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 1h 27m 19 SEPT Spencer Cox Wants to Pull Our Politics Back From the Brink The Utah governor is trying to model a different kind of leadership in a very dangerous political moment. The Trump administration seems intent on using the assassination of Charlie Kirk to crack down on what it calls “the radical left.” But Spencer Cox doesn’t believe that suppression will make Americans safer. For years now, Cox has been thinking seriously about our toxic political culture and what the path out of it could be. So I wanted to have him on the show to talk about how he responded in the hours and days after the shooting, what it has left him thinking about and what he thinks we should do now. Mentioned: Politics and Social Change Lab Book Recommendations: Our Biggest Fight by Frank H. McCourt, Jr. A Time to Build by Yuval Levin American Covenant by Yuval Levin The Pursuit of Happiness by Jeffrey Rosen Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Rollin Hu. Fact checking by Michelle Harris, Kate Sinclair and Mary Marge Locker. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld, with additional mixing by Aman Sahota. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Annie Galvin, Kristin Lin, Jack McCordick, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 55 min 16 SEPT We Are Going to Have to Live Here With Each Other This is an episode in two parts. First, my thoughts on Charlie Kirk’s murder, now that I’ve had a few days to process it, and to see the unfolding reactions and responses on both sides. Then a conversation with Ben Shapiro — one that was recorded shortly before Kirk’s assassination, but that has a different significance after it. This episode contains strong language. Mentioned: “Charlie Kirk Was Practicing Politics the Right Way” by Ezra Klein Dominion by Tom Holland “What J.D. Vance Believes” by Ross Douthat Book Recommendations: Superabundance by Marian Tupy and Gale Pooley Democracy in America by Alexis de Tocqueville  The Constitution of Liberty by F.A. Hayek Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Annie Galvin and Elias Isquith. Fact-checking by Michelle Harris. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld, with additional mixing by Aman Sahota. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Rollin Hu, Kristin Lin, Jack McCordick, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Carole Sabouraud, Sonia Herrero and Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 1h 56m 7 SEPT • SUBSCRIBERS ONLY If Democrats Have a Better Plan, I’d Like to Hear It In a few weeks the government’s funding will run out. If Democrats vote for a new spending bill, they will be funding Trump’s autocratic takeover. What should they do? Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This column read was produced by our executive producer, Claire Gordon. Fact-checking by Jack McCordick. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld, with mixing by Aman Sahota. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Annie Galvin, Michelle Harris, Rollin Hu, Kristin Lin, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Aman Sahota and Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 22 min 2 SEPT • SUBSCRIBERS ONLY The Supreme Court Is Backing Trump's Power Grab Trump was losing in the courts. He’s not anymore. In the early months of the administration, the courts were proving a powerful check on President Trump, blocking many of his boldest actions. But those were the lower courts. In the past few months, the Supreme Court has weighed in, and it has handed Trump win after win after win. So what do these decisions enable the president to do? And why is the Supreme Court giving Trump what he wants? To pull all this apart, I’m joined by Kate Shaw. She is a former Supreme Court law clerk, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School and a host of the “Strict Scrutiny” podcast. Note: This episode was recorded on Aug. 21, before Trump announced his intention to fire Lisa Cook from the Federal Reserve Board of Governors and before Immigration and Customs Enforcement re-arrested Kilmar Armando Abrego Garcia and began processing him for deportation to Uganda. Mentioned: “Don't Believe Him” by Ezra Klein “This Is the Presidency John Roberts Has Built” by Peter M. Shane Book Recommendations: Lawless by Leah Litman Vera, or Faith by Gary Shteyngart We the People by Jill Lepore Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Elias Isquith. Fact-checking by Michelle Harris. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld. Mixing by Isaac Jones and Aman Sahota. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Annie Galvin, Rollin Hu, Elias Isquith, Kristin Lin, Jack McCordick, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Aman Sahota and Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Special thanks to Josh Chafetz. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 57 min 27 AUG • SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Trump Is Building His Own Paramilitary Force ICE now has the biggest budget of any law enforcement agency in America. “ICE and Customs and Border Protection have long been the most rogue, kind of renegade and certainly pro-Trump police agencies in the federal government,” explained Radley Balko, a journalist who’s covered policing for decades. “What I think we are seeing right now is Trump is attempting to build his own paramilitary force. They want people whose first, ultimate loyalty in this job is going to be to the president.” Balko is the author of “Rise of the Warrior Cop: The Militarization of America’s Police Forces.” And he’s been tracking the changes at ICE and the Trump administration’s escalating law-and-order tactics on his excellent newsletter, The Watch. Mentioned: “ICE’s Mind-Bogglingly Massive Blank Check” by Caitlin Dickerson “The police militarization debate is over” by Radley Balko Book Recommendations: The Highest Law in the Land by Jessica Pishko Unruly by David Mitchell Bottoms Up and the Devil Laughs by Kerry Howley Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Jack McCordick. Fact-checking by Will Peischel. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld. Mixing by Isaac Jones. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Annie Galvin, Michelle Harris, Rollin Hu, Elias Isquith, Kristin Lin, Aman Sahota, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 1h 8m 22 AUG • SUBSCRIBERS ONLY MAHA Is a Bad Answer to a Good Question “Make America Healthy Again” is a great idea — somebody should try it. A lot of the concerns animating the MAHA movement — chronic disease, the unhealthiness of the American diet, how profits warp our health care system — are serious issues. But Robert F. Kennedy Jr. hasn’t taken major actions to address them. Instead he’s gutted funding for scientific research, including nearly $500 million dedicated to mRNA vaccine development, throwing a huge amount of possibly lifesaving research in limbo. How did we get here? What are the politics that allowed Donald Trump to preside over Operation Warp Speed, the single most successful pandemic mitigation policy, and then turn around a few years later to appoint Kennedy to undo it all? My colleague David Wallace-Wells has done incredible reporting on how pandemic policies have shaped our politics, culture and society. Rachael Bedard is a physician and a writer who has been thinking deeply about what MAHA represents and where the movement could find common ground with its critics. Mentioned: “‘I Think He Is About to Destroy Vaccines in This Country’” by David Wallace-Wells “Why Calling RFK Jr. ‘Anti-Science’ Misses the Point” by Rachael Bedard Book Recommendations: Doppelganger by Naomi Klein The End Doesn’t Happen All at Once by Chi Rainer Bornfree and Ragini Tharoor Srinivasan Plagues Upon the Earth by Kyle Harper The Making of the Atomic Bomb by Richard Rhodes Calling the Shots by Jennifer Reich Wave by Sonali Deraniyagala Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Annie Galvin and Jack McCordick. Fact-checking by Michelle Harris, with Kate Sinclair and Mary Marge Locker. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld, with additional mixing by Aman Sahota. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Rollin Hu, Elias Isquith, Kristin Lin, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. Special thanks to Dr. Sunil Patel and Dr. Andrew Gabrielson. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 1h 22m 20 AUG · BONUS • SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Your Questions (and Criticisms) of Our Recent Shows I do my best to respond to your critiques of some of our recent episodes. We got an overwhelming response to my interviews with the Palestinian activist Mahmoud Khalil, the national conservativism theorist Yoram Hazony and the human rights lawyer Philippe Sands on whether Israel is committing genocide in Gaza. So in this subscriber-only Ask Me Anything I answer some of the biggest critiques we received, as well as other listener questions on the Democratic Party’s political strategy, how the ideas in “Abundance” are rippling out in the world and the strange experience I had doing a Munk Debate. Thank you to everyone who sent in questions. And if you aren’t a New York Times subscriber but would like to be, just go to nytimes.com/subscription. This episode contains strong language. Mentioned:  “Why American Jews No Longer Understand One Another” by Ezra Klein  Our episode with Philippe Sands  Our episode with Mahmoud Khalil  Our episode with Yoram Hazony Munk  Debate Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com.  You can find the transcript and more episodes of “The Ezra Klein Show” at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast. Book recommendations from all our guests are listed at https://www.nytimes.com/article/ezra-klein-show-book-recs.html  This episode of “The Ezra Klein Show” was produced by Claire Gordon and Kristin Lin. Fact checking by Michelle Harris, Mary Marge Locker and Kate Sinclair. Our senior engineer is Jeff Geld, with additional mixing by Aman Sahota and Isaac Jones. Our executive producer is Claire Gordon. The show’s production team also includes Marie Cascione, Annie Galvin, Rollin Hu, Elias Isquith, Jack McCordick, Marina King and Jan Kobal. Original music by Pat McCusker. Audience strategy by Kristina Samulewski and Shannon Busta. The director of New York Times Opinion Audio is Annie-Rose Strasser. 1 hr See All (446) Trailer TRAILER Coming Soon: The Ezra Klein Show Every Tuesday and Friday, Ezra Klein invites you into a conversation about something that matters. How do we address climate change if the political system fails to act? Has the logic of markets infiltrated too many aspects of our lives? What is the future of the Republican Party? What do psychedelics teach us about consciousness? What does sci-fi understand about our present that we miss? Can our food system be just to humans and animals alike? Subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts. You can find transcripts (posted midday) and more episodes of "The Ezra Klein Show" at nytimes.com/ezra-klein-podcast, and you can find Ezra on Twitter @ezraklein. Thoughts? Guest suggestions? Email us at ezrakleinshow@nytimes.com. “The Ezra Klein Show” is produced by Rogé Karma and Jeff Geld; fact-checking by Michelle Harris; original music by Isaac Jones; mixing by Jeff Geld. Unlock full access to New York Times podcasts and explore everything from politics to pop culture. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 13/01/2021 • 3 min New York Times Podcasts Shows with Subscription Benefits This is what the news should sound like. The biggest stories of our time, told by the best journalists in the world. Hosted by Michael Barbaro, Rachel Abrams and Natalie Kitroeff. Twenty minutes a day, five days a week, ready by 6 a.m.  Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. 4.3 (139) DAILY NEWS 30m “Hard Fork” is a show about the future that’s already here. Each week, journalists Kevin Roose and Casey Newton explore and make sense of the latest in the rapidly changing world of tech.  Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. 4.7 (9) TECHNOLOGY Play Trailer The first draft of our future. Mapping the new world order through interviews and conversations. Every Thursday, from New York Times Opinion. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. 4.2 (9) NEWS 59m Catch up on today’s top stories, with insight and analysis from Times reporters all over the world. From the team that brought you "The Daily." Listen every weekday morning.  Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. 0.0 (0) DAILY NEWS Play Trailer In August of 1619, a ship carrying more than 20 enslaved Africans arrived in the English colony of Virginia. America was not yet America, but this was the moment it began. No aspect of the country that would be formed here has been untouched by the 250 years of slavery that followed. On the 400th anniversary of this fateful moment, it is time to tell the story. “1619” is a New York Times audio series hosted by Nikole Hannah-Jones. You can find more information about it at nytimes.com/1619podcast.  "1619" has been named an Apple Podcasts Series Essential. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. 4.8 (20) NEWS Play Trailer The best narrated audio journalism from The New York Times Magazine. Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. 0.0 (0) NEWS Play Trailer Subscribe via The NYT app to access past episodes. View Subscription FAQs Hosts & Guests Ezra Klein Host SC Spencer Cox Guest KS Kate Shaw Guest RB Radley Balko Guest NS Natasha Sarin Guest Philippe Sands Guest MK Mahmoud Khalil Guest YH Yoram Hazony Guest BK Barbara Kingsolver Guest JJ Jesse Jenkins Guest Ratings & Reviews 4.3 out of 5 17 Ratings About Ezra Klein invites you into a conversation on something that matters. How do we address climate change if the political system fails to act? Has the logic of markets infiltrated too many aspects of our lives? What is the future of the Republican Party? What do psychedelics teach us about consciousness? What does sci-fi understand about our present that we miss? Can our food system be just to humans and animals alike?

Subscribe today at nytimes.com/podcasts or on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also subscribe via your favorite podcast app here https://www.nytimes.com/activate-access/audio?source=podcatcher. For more podcasts and narrated articles, download The New York Times app at nytimes.com/app. Information Channel The New York Times Creator New York Times Opinion Years Active 2021 - 2025 Episodes 446 Rating Explicit Copyright © 2024 THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY; The New York Times encourages the use of RSS feeds for personal use in a news reader or as part of a non-commercial blog, subject to your agreement to our Terms of Service. Show Website The Ezra Klein Show Provider The New York Times Company The New York Times Company has identified itself as a trader for this podcast and confirmed that this product or service complies with European Union law.

Address
620 8th Ave
New York New York 10018-1618
United States

Phone Number
+1 5708072620

Email
rokk-vincelli.williams@nytimes.com More From The New York Times Personal Journals Personal Journals Series News News Updated 12/09/2017 Politics Politics Updated 03/02/2017 News News Series Society & Culture Society & Culture Updated weekly News News Updated weekly Music Commentary Music Commentary Monthly You Might Also Like Daily News Daily News Updated daily News News Updated weekly Politics Politics Updated twice weekly Comedy Comedy Updated weekly Society & Culture Society & Culture Updated weekly Books Books Updated daily News News Updated weekly Finland Suomi Select a country or region Africa, Middle East, and India See All Algeria Angola Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Benin Botswana Brunei Darussalam Burkina Faso Cameroun Cape Verde Chad Côte d’Ivoire Congo, The Democratic Republic Of The Egypt Eswatini Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea-Bissau India Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kuwait Lebanon Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger (English) Nigeria Oman Qatar Congo, Republic of Rwanda São Tomé and Príncipe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone South Africa Sri Lanka Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic Of Tunisia Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uganda Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Asia Pacific See All Afghanistan Australia Bhutan Cambodia 中国大陆 Fiji 香港 Indonesia (English) 日本 Kazakhstan 대한민국 Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic 澳門 Malaysia (English) Maldives Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nauru Nepal New Zealand Pakistan Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines Singapore Solomon Islands 台灣 Thailand Tonga Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vietnam Europe See All Albania Armenia Österreich Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czechia Denmark Estonia Finland France (Français) Georgia Deutschland Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italia Kosovo Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg (English) Malta Moldova, Republic Of Montenegro Nederland North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal (Português) Romania Россия Serbia Slovakia Slovenia España Sverige Schweiz Türkiye (English) Ukraine United Kingdom Latin America and the Caribbean See All Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina (Español) Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Bolivia (Español) Brasil Virgin Islands, British Cayman Islands Chile (Español) Colombia (Español) Costa Rica (Español) Dominica República Dominicana Ecuador (Español) El Salvador (Español) Grenada Guatemala (Español) Guyana Honduras (Español) Jamaica México Montserrat Nicaragua (Español) Panamá Paraguay (Español) Perú St. Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia St. Vincent and The Grenadines Suriname Trinidad and Tobago Turks and Caicos Uruguay (English) Venezuela (Español) The United States and Canada See All Canada (English) Canada (Français) United States Estados Unidos (Español México) الولايات المتحدة США 美国 (简体中文) États-Unis (Français France) 미국 Estados Unidos (Português Brasil) Hoa Kỳ 美國 (繁體中文台灣) Copyright © 2025 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Internet Service Terms Apple Podcasts web player & Privacy Cookie Warning Support Feedback To listen to explicit episodes, sign in. Sign In Stay up to date with this show Sign in or sign up to follow shows, save episodes and get the latest updates. Sign In Select a country or region Africa, Middle East, and India See All Algeria Angola Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Benin Botswana Brunei Darussalam Burkina Faso Cameroun Cape Verde Chad Côte d’Ivoire Congo, The Democratic Republic Of The Egypt Eswatini Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea-Bissau India Iraq Israel Jordan Kenya Kuwait Lebanon Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger (English) Nigeria Oman Qatar Congo, Republic of Rwanda São Tomé and Príncipe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone South Africa Sri Lanka Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic Of Tunisia Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uganda Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Asia Pacific See All Afghanistan Australia Bhutan Cambodia 中国大陆 Fiji 香港 Indonesia (English) 日本 Kazakhstan 대한민국 Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic 澳門 Malaysia (English) Maldives Micronesia, Federated States of Mongolia Myanmar Nauru Nepal New Zealand Pakistan Palau Papua New Guinea Philippines Singapore Solomon Islands 台灣 Thailand Tonga Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vietnam Europe See All Albania Armenia Österreich Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czechia Denmark Estonia Finland France (Français) Georgia Deutschland Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italia Kosovo Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg (English) Malta Moldova, Republic Of Montenegro Nederland North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal (Português) Romania Россия Serbia Slovakia Slovenia España Sverige Schweiz Türkiye (English) Ukraine United Kingdom Latin America and the Caribbean See All Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina (Español) Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Bolivia (Español) Brasil Virgin Islands, British Cayman Islands Chile (Español) Colombia (Español) Costa Rica (Español) Dominica República Dominicana Ecuador (Español) El Salvador (Español) Grenada Guatemala (Español) Guyana Honduras (Español) Jamaica México Montserrat Nicaragua (Español) Panamá Paraguay (Español) Perú St. Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia St. Vincent and The Grenadines Suriname Trinidad and Tobago Turks and Caicos Uruguay (English) Venezuela (Español) The United States and Canada See All Canada (English) Canada (Français) United States Estados Unidos (Español México) الولايات المتحدة США 美国 (简体中文) États-Unis (Français France) 미국 Estados Unidos (Português Brasil) Hoa Kỳ 美國 (繁體中文台灣)