# Document: =UTF-8qWeekly_Recap_Fashion=E2=80=99s_New_Favorite_Banker_&_A_Dallas_=
 =UTF-8qArt_Experiment=_Sun,_23_Feb_2025_13-00-58_+0000_19532e5a15801466_20250819_090723.html

Welcome back to your weekly roundup of Puck’s exclusive Inner Circle hits. As the Inner Circle continues to expand, we’re excited to share exclusive content from Line Sheet and Wall Power. For full access to this special reporting, you can upgrade here.

Hey there, Welcome back to your weekly roundup of Puck’s exclusive Inner Circle hits. As the Inner Circle continues to expand, we’re excited to share exclusive
content from Line Sheet and Wall Power. For full access to this special reporting, you can upgrade here . In this issue: Marion Maneker sits down with prominent Dallas art
collectors Howard Rachofsky and Thomas Hartland-Mackie to discuss their hybrid exhibition space. Meanwhile, Lauren Sherman digs into the Saks Global drama and the Marc Metrick memo that shook the retail world—and examines fashion’s new favorite banker, Rothschild & Co. Enjoy! ART Marion Maneker Condition Report: Howard Rachofsky and Thomas Hartland-Mackie Howard Rachofsky founded The Warehouse in 2012 with a dual purpose: to
store his massive art collection, but also to serve as an exhibition and education space for the community in Dallas. Lately, though, he’s been focused on The Warehouse’s future. As he tells Marion, he’s pragmatic—but he’s also 80. So last year, he teamed up with his friend and sometime canasta buddy, fellow collector Thomas Hartland-Mackie—who also has a strong connection to Dallas’s collaborative art community—and created The Warehouse Dallas Art Foundation to jointly operate The Warehouse.
Marion sits down with Hartland-Mackie and Rachofsky for a close look at their foundation’s first exhibition, the origins of The Warehouse, its education focus, and its next phase. Read Now FASHION Lauren Sherman Notes From the Saks Apocalypse Last Friday afternoon, Saks Global C.E.O. Marc Metrick sent a
now-infamous memo to the company’s vendors, declaring that brands will now be paid within 90 days of shipping products to Saks, Neiman Marcus, or Bergdorf Goodman—tripling the long-held 30-day window. Metrick insisted the memo was not a threat, but rather an excruciatingly necessary reorganization required to reset the business for the long term. Perhaps this new policy is a stern way of weeding out brands that aren’t great partners, but everyone is livid. Lauren observes that
Metrick’s plan will work only if he and his team can persuade the majority of brands to comply. Will they fall in line, or will vendors accept the revenue hit and exit Saks Global entirely? Read Now FASHION Lauren Sherman Sarah Shapiro Fashion’s New Favorite Banker & Jenni Kayne Exit Chatter A tidy dispatch of fashion and beauty industry intel: How Rothschild & Co
became the preferred bank for midsize fashion brands, the murmurs around Los Angeles that Jenni Kayne is on the block, and news on the California bill that would prevent under-18s from buying certain skincare formulations. Read
Now Join Us in the Inner Circle Becoming an Inner Circle member now gives you access to
even more exclusive coverage you won't get anywhere else Exclusive bonus sends of select newsletters Exclusive access to Puck merch Early-bird access to new editorial and product features Invitations to private conference calls with Puck authors Every Friday, you’ll receive The Crier, a newsletter featuring the latest programming, intel, and special perks available to our highest tier of membership. JOIN THE INNER CIRCLE Exclusive Bonus Days of
Select Newsletters Line Sheet LAUREN SHERMAN, RACHEL STRUGATZ & SARAH SHAPIRO Inner Circle subscribers receive exclusive access to bonus
Thursday editions of Line Sheet Wall Power MARION MANEKER & JULIE DAVICH Inner Circle subscribers receive exclusive access to bonus
Wednesday editions of Wall Power JOIN THE INNER CIRCLE Need help? Review our FAQ page or contact us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 107 Greenwich St,
New York, NY 10006