# Document: What's On Deck for On Deck_Thu,_25_Mar_2021_17-32-49_+0000_1786a72b8bc24b26_20250819_090726.eml

Not Boring Investment Memo: Announcing a $20 Million Series A to Rebuild Education ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

What's On Deck for On Deck? Not Boring Investment Memo: Announcing a $20 Million Series A to Rebuild Education Mar 25 Welcome to the 404 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 41,075 smart, curious folks by subscribing here: Subscribe now 🎧 To get this memo straight in your ears: listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Important, Not Important The world is changing, and the issues we face are not only connected, but enormously complex. Climate, infectious disease, pollution. To stay smart and do our part, we need to seek out the most reputable news sources and identify the most effective ways to take action. That’s where Important, Not Important comes in. Important, Not Important is a free weekly newsletter that curates the most vital science news of the week, providing a generalist analysis you can use to better understand what’s happening, and data-driven Action Steps to tell you what the hell to do about it, all in 10 minutes or less. In short, Important, Not Important exists to make feel less fucking terrified and more in control. Selfishly, I read it because today’s biggest challenges are also some of the best investment opportunities. Want to go deeper? They have a podcast, too, featuring conversations with some of the smartest humans on the planet. Subscribe to Important Not Important Hi friends 👋 , Today, On Deck is announcing that it’s raising a $20 million Series A led by Keith Rabois at Founders Fund with participation from Learn Capital, Chamath Palihapitiya, Slack Fund, Village Global, Eric Yuan, Fred Ehrsam, Allison Picken’s The New Normal Fund, Charles Hudson at Precursor Ventures, Adam D’Angelo, Jen Rubio, Elad Gill, Julia DeWahl, Henry Ward, Afton Vechery, Jules Walter, Eric Su, Julia Lipton, Scott Belsky, Anthony Pompliano, Bloomberg Beta, Dylan Field, Aarti Ramamurthy, and many, many more members of the On Deck community. I’m thrilled that Not Boring is able to invest alongside that crew to help support the creation of a modern educational institution for the future of work. I’m particularly excited about this one as an On Deck alum and someone who once tried (and failed) to do a fraction of what On Deck is doing. Let’s get to it. What’s On Deck for On Deck? A Not Boring Investment Memo: A $20 million Series A to Rebuild Education When Not Boring Was Not Boring Club "Find ways of staying curious and learning new things, because it's super sad to think your last day of college is the last day you are taught something new." — Kevin Systrom , Founder, Instagram Before Not Boring was a newsletter, it was Not Boring Club, an idea I had for a mashup of social club and continuing education, Soho House meets college extracurriculars for busy and ambitious people. My thesis was that people wanted a combination of lifelong learning and community that was more interactive than online education and much, much less expensive than an MBA, within the flow of their daily lives. I hated that the end of college meant the end of learning with friends. To validate the opportunity, I did what I do to think through something: write. In July 2019, I wrote Why There Isn’t a Dominant Aggregator in Online Education . The numbers backed up the need for new (continuing) education models: Education is one of only two of the top 10 consumer spending categories (at 2% of total consumer spend) not owned by an Aggregator. In 2015, the US government spent $649 billion on K-12 education, US colleges spent $559 billion to educate and support their students. That spend accounted for ~7% of US GDP. In 2018, student loan debt passed $1.5 trillion , and is continuing to grow. $107 billion is spent on online education globally (and that was before COVID). Good enough for me. When it was time to leave Breather and really go for it, I decided to do what an increasing number of founders do: apply to On Deck . I got in, and joined ODF2 in New York. I remember getting into the Slack, joining the #intros channel, and thinking that I was so far out of my depth. On Deck put together one of the most talented groups of people I’ve ever been a part of. Turns out, On Deck was a lot of the things I was looking to build: education, community, network, friendships, and career opportunities. I made friends and connections in On Deck that I still talk to daily. Then the pandemic hit. After briefly trying to bring the Not Boring Club online, I threw in the towel. On Deck, which had previously been entirely in-person, went the other way and stepped on the gas. It quickly moved online, welcomed global applicants, and scaled up at breakneck speed. Over the past year, On Deck has done something insanely hard: scaled community and education, online, profitably , while growing revenue 10x and building out a platform on top of which it can launch new products and integrate acquired ones such that each is a desirable standalone offering that connects to and strengthens at least one other part of the ecosystem. If that’s a lot in one sentence, that’s because On Deck has done a lot. While it’s so hard to avoid On Deck on Twitter that joining and/or working for On Deck has become a meme, I agree with #2 Not Boring referrer and VC Hunter Walk : On Deck is undercovered and underappreciated relative to the strength of its business model, the frenetic pace of its progress, and the potential size of its impact (these excellent posts by Jake Singer , Paul Millerd , and Nick DeWilde aside). That’s what we’re here for. EdTech and community have traditionally been hard categories to invest in. How did On Deck just raise $20 million from some of the world’s best venture investors? Let’s dig: On Deck Investment Thesis. Natively Integrated Education. Platform and Team Constellation. The On Deck Opportunity. On Deck is building more than a new kind of educational institution. It’s building a new way to build. On Deck Investment Thesis On Deck is dramatically reimagining continuing education by breaking it into smaller atomic units, each of which feed off of each other to create a better customer experience, strong Lifetime Value, and deep moats that will protect its high price point and margins over time. The On Deck investment thesis is a Russian Doll: there’s what they’re building, what that looks like today, and how they’re building what they’re building. What they’re building: On Deck is building a modern, digitally native education platform at a fraction of the time and cost of traditional higher and continuing education. What that looks like today: On Deck is comprised of 17 different programs , which themselves are comprised of smaller cohorts , which all roll up into a broader On Deck ecosystem . Each new program feeds into the others, providing “supply” for a “demand” the team has identified in existing programs. For example, On Deck Angels supplies capital to On Deck Founders, while Founders reciprocate with access to exclusive dealflow. How They’re Building What They’re Building: The meta, how On Deck is building what it’s building, is the most unique and fascinating part. The team is building a platform on top of which it can plug in new programs. As I was thinking about what makes On Deck special, I saw this tweet: On Deck doesn’t make programs, it makes organizations that make programs. And it does so incredibly quickly. On Deck launches new products and programs more quickly than pure software companies do, while managing all of the complexity of dealing with real humans. When I joined, On Deck only had its Founders Fellowship. Today, a little over a year later, it has fellowships for Founders, Angels, VCs, No-Code, Writers, Podcasters, leaders scaling companies, people looking to join startups as one of the first 50 employees, Community, Climate, FinTech, and more. In eight months, they went from one fellowship to this: One of the challenges with both community and top-tier education is that it’s really hard to scale. There’s something called “evaporative cooling , ” which is when the quality of the people and interactions in a community decreases as more people join. On Deck has one of the most credible approaches to solving this challenge of any I’ve seen. By adding new verticals instead of making the Founders Fellowship really, really big, On Deck has built a group of small, intimate communities that roll up into one large, On Deck community. Each fellowship it adds reinforces the others. Jake Singer wrote a fantastic piece on On Deck’s Flywheel , which is spot on but misses a key element: the speed at which it turns the flywheel. The more quickly On Deck adds new high-quality programs and integrates them with the existing programs, and the faster it acquires new companies to enhance all of the existing programs, the faster the flywheel spins, the deeper the moats go, and the harder it is for anyone to compete with On Deck. As we’ll dig into below, On Deck’s accumulated institutional program-building expertise allows it to get creative with who it taps to lead programs. Instead of hiring for educational experience, it can hire for passion, expertise, and audience, all of which increase On Deck’s awareness and credibility. Looking at the programs together, On Deck is building what co-founder Erik Torenberg calls , “Stanford for the Internet.” Today, On Deck is where top talent, from anywhere in the world, goes to kickstart an increasing number of paths in tech and the creator economy; over time, it should be able to plug anything that people want to learn or build together into its infrastructure. Specifically, it has two products: A new approach to continuous online education: delivered through synchronous 'cohorts' of 100 - 200 individuals, with an emphasis on peer-to-peer learning. In 2021, On Deck will launch up to 120 of these cohorts across ~30 categories, driving substantial upfront cash flow. A private, professional social network. Serving as the "campus" to On Deck’s "college," the On Deck product is a “ market network ” facilitating matching between talent and opportunity, knowledge, and more. It’s LinkedIn and AngelList meet Quora, and it’s one way that On Deck will be able to continue to charge subscription revenue long after each Fellowship ends. Now if you’re like the investors I spoke to when I was thinking about Not Boring Club, despite everything I wrote above, you might hear the words “community” and “education” and head for the exits. WAIT! You might want to hear On Deck’s numbers first. On Deck is an education business with software margins : On Deck turned a profit in 2020 , and entered 2021 on a ~$20M run rate. On Deck is known for its consumer-facing programs, but it currently has five revenue streams: Consumer-Facing Programs . The bread and butter, these cover everything from the Founders Fellowship I was a part of to On Deck Writers. Career Programs. Like the YPO for X, these are ongoing professional organizations that people should be able to expense out of their L&D budgets, for example On Deck Scale, and the new Design and Chief of Staff programs. Partnerships . On Deck has annual partnerships with 17 partners like Stripe, Carta, Mercury, and Substack. Recruiting . On Deck recently acquired Lean Hire , which should benefit dramatically by being plugged into the On Deck Network. Digital Subscription Bundle . On Deck is launching an ongoing subscription to keep program participants engaged over the course of their careers. With these programs and products, and new ones launching seemingly weekly, On Deck is on track to 10x again in the next 2-3 years. When you zoom out, what On Deck is building looks less like an educational institution and more like a really great internet business. What makes a great internet business? It’s pretty simple: acquire customers cheaply, sell them more things, get operating leverage, produce strong margins, and build moats to protect it all. Look at On Deck: Low CAC. On Deck doesn’t pay much for marketing. Instead, referrals from existing fellows constitute one of its biggest channels, with over 2,500 direct referrals to ODF alone. Plus, with each new high-profile program lead or participant, On Deck’s surface area and attractiveness grows. Revenue expansion. Most educational institutions get customers for four years, and then spend the rest of their lives asking for donations. On Deck is able to cross-sell multiple programs and products to each Fellow, including an ongoing subscription. High upfront costs, low marginal costs. On Deck is building a platform on top of which it can launch new programs and products more cheaply and quickly. High margins. Despite requiring real live humans, On Deck is already profitable because it maintains pricing power compared to competitors (although it’s 1% as expensive as an MBA). Moats. As the network behind On Deck scales, an increasing share of its “utility” comes through the network participants unlock through joining — which becomes increasingly hard to compete with over time. See Exhibit A: Linkedin. It’s taken On Deck years to build its reputation and network. Invite-only dinners turned into Founder Fellowships turned into the growing network it is today. Now that it has the lead, it’s built to compound. The flywheel that makes On Deck valuable to participants also means that On Deck digs deeper moats with every program it creates, every new cohort that enters, and every connection it makes among everything that it does. It’s building a modern educational institution that looks nothing like the ones it aims to replace. To read more about On Deck as a Natively Integrated Educator, its Platform and Team, and the future of On Deck… Continue Reading Online How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great. Loved | Great | Good | Meh | Bad Thanks for reading and see you on Monday, Packy If you liked this post from Not Boring by Packy McCormick , why not share it? Share © 2021 Packy McCormick Unsubscribe 10 City Point, Brooklyn, NY 11201