# Document: A Not Boring Adventure, One Year In_Mon,_5_Apr_2021_12-51-37_+0000_178a2173fba57a6a_20250819_090726.eml

Not Boring on Not Boring ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

A Not Boring Adventure, One Year In Not Boring on Not Boring Apr 5 Welcome to the 537 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 42,205 smart, curious folks by subscribing here: Subscribe now 🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify or Apple Podcasts Hi friends 👋 , Happy Monday! This is a big one for me: Not Boring’s first birthday. Instead of writing about a very big company, which I normally do on Monday, I’m writing about a very small one: Not Boring. It’s been a crazy year, I’ve learned a ton, and it’s just going to get better from here. But it was not at all obvious that this was going to work out a year ago. Before we get to it, I just want to say a big thank you. Nothing in this story would have happened without you reading, commenting, conversing, and sharing. I feel very lucky that you’re willing to take time out of your day to read what I write. If you want to bring some smart, curious friends along for year two: Share Today's Not Boring is brought to you a Not Boring Day One-er Fun Fact: Public was the first company ever to sponsor multiple Not Boring newsletters. They sponsored Knock Knock. Who's There? Opendoor. and have been with us ever since. Public and Not Boring are a perfect match: like Not Boring, Public makes the investing conversation fun. Public is an investing app AND a social network for talking about business trends, and the social features make it easy to share ideas. Thank Public for making Not Boring possible by hitting the link below and joining me over there. If you want to transfer your account from somewhere else, they’ll even cover the fees . Switch to Public *Valid for U.S. residents 18+ and subject to account approval. Transfer fees covered for portfolios valued at or over $150. See Public.com/disclosures/ . A Not Boring Adventure, One Year In This has been the wildest and most rewarding year of my life, both personally and professionally: our son, Dev, turned 6 months old yesterday, and Not Boring turned one on Friday. A year ago, we knew that Dev was coming, but I had no idea what I was going to do. I had quit my job, launched an in-person company that got crushed by lockdowns (and was probably a bad idea anyway), and to top it off, I caught COVID the week I decided to start writing Not Boring. I was lost. Somehow, since then, with all of your help, I’ve built my dream job. Over the past 365 days, I’ve: Written and sent 417k words . That’s more than all seven Chronicles of Narnia . Grown from under 500 subscribers to over 42,000 . Run a syndicate which has invested nearly $2 million in fourteen companies. Generated more revenue than I’ve ever made in a full-time job . I legitimately didn’t believe this was possible. I would see people with big followings on Twitter or big subscriber lists and think that they had some special je ne sais quoi . I still think that it could end at any moment. Today, I want to share the Not Boring story as honestly as possible -- it often looks way easier from the outside -- with lessons I’ve learned on writing, growth, business models, investing, and creator psychology sprinkled in. We’ll cover: Getting Here: Per My Last Email → Not Boring Club → Not Boring Growth: Luck, Shares, Ups, Downs and Tommy The Writing Process and Psychology Business Model: Optimize for Growth and Opportunity The Not Boring Syndicate The Present and Future of Not Boring If anything in this story seems planned, premeditated, or in any way clean, that’s just my brain going back, filling in gaps, and connecting dots. As much as I write about strategy, this story is about working hard even when it seems silly and following serendipity. My biggest lesson so far: this is neither as impossible nor easy as it looks. The Winding and Uncertain Road to Not Boring Per My Last Email I’m cheating a little when I say that it’s Not Boring’s one year birthday. I wrote a different newsletter -- Per My Last Email -- for almost a year before. In early 2019, the board at Breather, where I worked, had just brought in a new CEO, who himself was in the middle of bringing in a new, experienced executive team. A couple weeks into the new regime, Ben Rollert (then VP, Product at Breather, now CEO at Composer ) and I presented at an exec team offsite about the need to differentiate and dig moats in an increasingly crowded and bubbly flex office market. We got cut off halfway through with something to the effect of: “Moats? This is a big market, we don’t need to worry about moats. We have a brand. That’s what Apple has.” I realized that my brain was going to shrivel up and rot if I didn’t do something. Ben’s always been smarter than me. He saw the writing on the wall and quit. I couldn’t quit right then -- I managed a 150 person team and didn’t want to abandon them -- so instead, I used my annual learning & development budget to take David Perell’s Write of Passage course. That was one of the best decisions I’ve ever made. One of the assignments for the course was to launch a Substack and get twenty people to subscribe. I reserved packym.substack.com, named it Per My Last Email, and begged my few hundred Twitter followers to sign up. Two days later, I had 28 subscribers, and we were off to the races. I wrote Per My Last Email on the side, spending a few hours each weekend or early in the morning curating links to essays, books, podcasts, and videos with a dash of commentary. It grew to about 400 subscribers in eleven months. It didn’t make a dollar and I didn’t expect that it ever would. But I had always told Puja and my family that if I ever got really rich and retired early, all I’d want to do is read and write and talk to really smart people. Per My Last Email let me start doing that in a small way. As someone who’d been so singularly focused on work for a decade, it felt good to have a hobby. Lesson: Make room for hobbies, even just a few hours a week. Not Boring Club Writing was also a way for me to test out a startup idea I had in a really lightweight way. The idea was Not Boring Club : a mashup of social club and continuing education, Soho House meets college extracurriculars for busy grownups. I wrote about education and IRL Member Communities to make sure there was a real opportunity. One of the problems with being good at writing is that you can convince people that bad ideas are good. You can even convince yourself. In October 2019, I quit Breather to start it. I wrote business plans, memos, started a debate club, made decks, built a website, and tried to write my way into a business model . I couldn’t quite figure it out. I knew what I wanted to exist, but the business model wasn’t clicking.  The people around me -- my sister, Puja, even my mom -- tried to gently tell me that this wasn’t it. They were, in hindsight and in the back of my mind even then, so obviously right. But I persisted, and announced the launch in a blog post . Thankfully, I didn’t raise money or sign a lease. Instead, I decided to start experimenting with a Slack group and a series of in-person events. By February, I started onboarding the first 150 (free) members with a series of small group dinners. On March 10th, we had to “postpone” a welcome dinner. Then a Debate Club. Then the next dinner. Then the next dinner. We quickly moved Not Boring Club online with cocktail making classes, lightning presentations, book clubs, and trivia nights. One day, I was frantically making slides for that night’s Trivia Night. Puja kind of gave me a look, and I realized how fucking ridiculous it seemed. How fucking ridiculous it was. That night, eight people showed up to play trivia. That was the final straw. I needed to do something different, but I couldn’t figure out what. One thing I knew for sure: I was a terrible online community leader, and I kind of hated it. If I’m being honest, COVID was a good excuse to erase my mistake. The Not Boring Club went on the back burner. Lesson: Don’t be afraid to admit that something you thought was a good idea turned out to be a bad idea. You’ll know it in your gut. Trust that instinct and cut bait. Not Boring Newsletter One year ago, I was locked in my Brooklyn apartment with COVID, feeling incredibly stuck and a little hopeless. Not Boring Club was on indefinite pause. In February, Puja and I found out we were having a baby, and I had zero income. The pressure was on. My brilliant plan? To turn the newsletter into something that could at least pay rent at some point in the future while I tried to figure out what I wanted to do next. Maybe it would even help me find a new job. At the time, I had weekly coaching calls with my mom. (Yup, you read that right.) On one of those calls, when I told her that the newsletter was the thing I was enjoying most and that I wanted to give it a shot, she said, “Why don’t you change the name of the newsletter to Not Boring?” So I did, and announced the change in the Last Per My Last Email in late March 2020. When I sent that email, there were 473 people subscribed to Per My Last Email. I got aggressive and changed my goal from “1,000 subscribers by the end of the year” to “1,000 subscribers by the end of April.” (At the time, I thought “end of April” was synonymous with “end of quarantine.”) After I announced the name change, I got a few replies saying, “Oh man, I loved Per My Last Email.” I called my mom and said that I thought I’d made a terrible mistake, that I’d messed up the newsletter too. Things were dark. But then they started to look up. The biggest change from Per My Last Email to Not Boring, other than the name, was that instead of curating links, I started writing long (ok, very long) essays myself. When I started writing, I wanted to write about tech and strategy (one of the first pieces I wrote was on Natively Integrated Companies and another was on Shen Yun and Startup Economics ), but I thought the space was too crowded (the first piece I ever wrote was the Best of Ben Thompson ). With Not Boring, I went back to the things I wanted to write about all along, the things that I cared about and spent my free time reading and talking about anyway. It got really fun, really quickly. I wrote about Jeff Bezos’ Fashion Flex , then I wrote about Creative Destruction through the lens of the Mickey Mouse Club , then Supply Gluts and Hey Arnold . I realized that I could write about the things that I liked writing about -- strategy, finance, economics, and tech -- even though they were crowded, as long as I wrote about it with my own, unique voice . That was a huge unlock, and a lesson in counter-positioning . Counter-positioning, my favorite of Hamilton Helmer’s 7 Powers , is when, “A newcomer adopts a new, superior business model which the incumbent does not mimic due to anticipated damage to their existing business.” Technically, combining strategy, finance, and pop culture isn’t a new business model, nor is it better, but it’s still a moat. Ben Thompson might be better, smarter, more experienced, and more popular, but can you imagine Ben Thompson explaining creative destruction with this image? Now I wasn’t intentionally counter-positioning -- there wasn’t that much foresight -- I was just having fun. In hindsight, I realize that there aren’t a lot of serious analyses out there that don’t take themselves seriously, because when people do serious analysis, they put on their serious analysis pants. The pop culture thing was a lucky accident. After that post last April, something started to click. People were sharing Not Boring. It got picked up by the Financial Times . Subscribers grew 53% in one month. Not Boring was still tiny, but it was starting to find that elusive * product-market fit *. Plus, people were stuck at home and bored. It was time to start focusing on growth. Lesson: Lean into the intersection of what you’re passionate about and what’s different about you. Growth: Luck, Shares, Ups, Downs, and Tommy In May 2020, one year into writing a newsletter, I wrote Looking Back, Forward, and Up to reflect on one year of writing and set goals for the future. My first goal was to hit 5,000 subscribers by the end of the summer, and then turn on paid subscriptions. From that piece: Goal #1: Grow to 5,000 Subscribers by Labor Day and 10,000 by May 21, 2021 It took ten months to get to 500, but less than two to get from there to 1,294. I’ll be testing a bunch of tactics over the next few months to get to 5,000, but the most important will be continuing to improve the content and provide more value so that you want to share it with your smartest friends. Last April, my brother Dan and I I retreated to the beach, shaved off our overgrown pandemic hair, and brainstormed. We decided the best path was to come up with a list of 100 growth ideas . We got to eleven, and did maybe three of them. I’m not a growth hack person. The most important growth levers over the past year ended up being really simple: quality and consistency . Show up enough for good things to happen every once in a while. From the 473 people that received the last Per My Last Email, we’re now at 42,205 a year later -- 8,803% growth 📈 . That growth didn’t happen in a straight line. This is net of unsubscribes. A lot of people unsubscribed over the course of the year. As a newsletter writer, you’re supposed to say, “Hey, I appreciate that they gave me a chance, and if it wasn’t for them, I’m happy they left!” That’s not how I think about it. Every time I see an unsubscribe email I take it personally and get pissed at the unsubscriber. That’s probably not going to change. To read more about growth, luck, my writing process, the Syndicate, how it all fits together in the Not Boring Flywheel, and the future of Not Boring… Continue Reading Online Thanks Dan , Puja , and Meg for editing! How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great. Loved | Great | Good | Meh | Bad Thanks for reading, and see you on Thursday for a special edition. Packy If you liked this post from Not Boring by Packy McCormick , why not share it? Share © 2021 Packy McCormick Unsubscribe 10 City Point, Brooklyn, NY 11201