# Document: =UTF-8qLauren=E2=80=99s_Mall_Report_&_The_Zaz_Cable_Shocker=_Tue,_10_Dec_2024_20-47-36_+0000_193b253f57c5795e_20250818_154500.eml

Diller & The Beast, A ‘Wicked’ Faux Pas, WaPo Hunger Games ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

View
                        email in browser Diller & The Beast, A ‘Wicked’ Faux Pas, WaPo Hunger Games Welcome back to The Daily Courant, your afternoon compendium of Puck’s latest reporting. Today, we lead with Lauren Sherman ’s timely holiday dispatch on the beguiling state of the American mall, which is in various stages of decline and transformation, just as the Fisher family—the longtime controlling shareholders of Gap Inc.—sell off millions of shares. Remarkably, brands like J.Crew and Abercrombie are doing better than Wall Street predicted. But there’s a real and growing question about their ceiling. Plus, below the fold: John Ourand explains why Brian Roberts gave Zaz a surprisingly generous carriage deal for his cable networks. Scott Mendelson ponders the missed box office opportunities following the success of Wicked and Moana 2 . Peter Hamby shares his conversation with provocative Silicon Valley congressman Ro Khanna about how the Democratic
Party lost its way. And in a conversation presented by Meta, Baratunde Thurston connects with Eriq Gardner about the myriad ways A.I. is infiltrating the entertainment industry. Meanwhile, in Puck’s podcast universe: Dylan Byers rings up legendary media mogul and IAC chairman Barry Diller to debate the fate of SpinCo and the future of The Daily Beast. On Impolitic , John Heilemann chats with veteran Republican speechwriter Pete Wehner about the once-and-future president’s transformation of the G.O.P. On Fashion People , Lauren is joined by Becky Malinsky to discuss Louise Trotter ’s possible move to Bottega Veneta. And on The Powers That Be , Dylan and Peter kibitz about the latest developments in the Washington Post executive editor sweepstakes and the myriad controversies trailing tech and culture writer Taylor Lorenz . Mall Rats LAUREN SHERMAN News, notes, fresh reporting, and some discount shopping at a series of recently refreshed historic mall brands. A MESSAGE FROM OUR SPONSOR "A magnificent second season" — ROGEREBERT.COM Sauron has returned. Cast out by Galadriel, the Dark Lord must now rely on his own cunning to rebuild his strength and forge the legendary Rings of Power, threatening to bind all peoples of Middle-earth to his sinister will. Dive into a behind-the-scenes look with showrunners/executive producers J.D. Payne and Patrick McKay as they reveal the deeper narrative threads and character journeys that define the epic second season. WATCH HERE LEARN MORE The Zaz Shocker & The Reinsdorf Mess JOHN OURAND News and notes on the latest deal intrigue consuming the sports media industrial complex: Brian Roberts’ surprisingly generous deal for Zaslav’s cable networks and the simmering R.S.N. warfare in the Second City. The Post-Thanksgiving Cop-Out SCOTT MENDELSON The long green tail of ‘Wicked’/‘Moana 2’ helped break more box office records this weekend, proving that the public was still primed and ready to fill seats the week after Thanksgiving. Too bad the studios lack the courage to give them something big to see. Ro Knows PETER HAMBY Ro Khanna represents some of the wealthiest zip codes in America, but what the Bernie-friendly, Bannon-approved Democrat really wants to talk about is the shafting of American factory workers and what the next president—maybe Khanna, himself?—should do about it. Hollywood’s A.I. Paradox BARATUNDE THURSTON A candid conversation with Puck’s resident legal expert about the myriad ways that A.I. is poised to change Hollywood, from its potential to transform the talent landscape to how the town’s agencies are bracing for impact. Barry & The Beast DYLAN BYERS Legendary media mogul and IAC chairman Barry Diller joins Dylan for a lively discussion on the shifting landscape of the media industry: Will Comcast’s spun-off cable assets thrive as a reimagined bundle or end up being sold to private equity? Do Hollywood heavyweights need greater scale to remain competitive? Can The Daily Beast transform into a powerhouse business? Peter Wehner: Hegseth’s Redemption Bromides & Trump’s Rampant Blasphemies JOHN HEILEMANN John is joined by Pete Wehner—veteran of the Reagan, Bush 41, and Bush 43 administrations—to discuss the once and future president’s transformation of the G.O.P., his perplexing appeal to the Christian Right, and more. Wehner explains Pete Hegseth’s redemption narrative, and why so many Evangelicals are so devoted to Trump in spite of his lack of godly virtues. TikTok Shoppies LAUREN SHERMAN Lauren and world famous fashion editor and Substacker Becky Malinsky consider the possibility of Carven designer Louise Trotter joining Bottega Veneta. They also highlight some of the best sales of the season, contemplate what the potential end of TikTok in the U.S. would mean for fashion brands, and go behind the scenes of Becky’s collaboration with Alex Mill. WaPo Hunger Games & Other Media War Stories PETER HAMBY & DYLAN BYERS Dylan Byers joins Peter with the latest on The Washington Post's executive editor sweepstakes, where a surprising twist sees one of the leading contenders defecting to The New York Times. Then Dylan delves into the never-ending controversies surrounding tech and culture writer Taylor Lorenz, and the baggage that seems to follow her at every turn. Need help? Review our FAQs
                                    page or contact
                                    us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 227 W 17th St New York, NY 10011.