# Document: The Genius Behind Hollywoods Most IndelibleSets_100723_20250818_154459.html

The Genius Behind Hollywood’s Most Indelible Sets

NY Times · by Noah Gallagher Shannon · October 20, 2023

How Jack Fisk, the master production designer behind ‘Killers of the Flower Moon’ and many other films, brings the past to life.

Jack FiskCredit...Alec Soth/Magnum, for The New York Times

By

Published Oct. 5, 2023Updated Oct. 20, 2023

Kihekah Avenue cuts through the town of Pawhuska, Okla., roughly north to south, forming the only corridor you might call a “business district” in the town of 2,900. Standing in the middle is a small TV-and-appliance store called Hometown, which occupies a two-story brick building and hasn’t changed much in decades. Boards cover its second-story windows, and part of the sign above its awning is broken, leaving half the lettering intact, spelling “Home.” The space inside, in the language of the plains, is “humble”: Its ceilings are low, its walls wood-paneled, its floors carpeted in tight-woven grids. If it weren’t for the giant inflatable University of Oklahoma Sooners mascot in its front-window display, the store would be easy to miss completely.

One winter day in February 2021, Jack Fisk stood before Hometown with Martin Scorsese, explaining how beautiful it could be. For much of the last week, he and Scorsese had been walking around Pawhuska, scouting set locations for the director’s 28th feature film, “Killers of the Flower Moon.” The film, which is based on David Grann’s best-selling book, chronicles the so-called 1920s Reign of Terror, when the Osage Nation’s discovery of oil made them some of the richest people in the world but also the target of a conspiracy among whites seeking to kill them for their shares of the mineral rights. To render the events as accurately as possible, Scorsese had decided to film the movie in Osage County. It would be a sprawling, technically complicated shoot, with much of the undertaking falling to Fisk. Unlike production designers who use soundstages or computer-generated imagery, he prefers to build from scratch or to remodel period buildings, and even more than most of his peers, he aspires to exacting historical detail. His task would be to create a full-scale replica of a 1920s boom town atop what remains of 2020s Pawhuska.

The concern for the two men that day was where to build a pool hall, a set critical to the film, as several pivotal scenes between the antagonists, played by Leonardo DiCaprio and Robert De Niro, unfold there. A nearby vacant building, formerly a hotel, appeared to capture the exact scale and mood Scorsese imagined: a vaulted space with columns and tile flooring. But Fisk voiced hesitations. He’d already spent several months in Osage County, touring buildings and studying land surveys, and he thought the hotel wouldn’t look right. For one thing, the columns suggested a multistory building of a type then rare to small towns. He also wanted the space to evoke a conspiratorial mood. A pool hall full of plotting, power-hungry men should have windows facing the other proposed sets on Kihekah Avenue, which would be transformed into a period thoroughfare; they would want “eyes on the town.”

Fisk made the case that Hometown’s space and location gave them exactly that: an atmosphere of menace. A former painter and sculptor, Fisk considers his job not merely the designing of authentic period backdrops but the creation of a film’s visual language, a series of subliminal whispers to thematic elements: a character’s taste in home décor, the personal history that selects a bedside photo, the temperament that informs a paint choice. He thinks of his art as one of believability: a nearly invisible composition of landscapes, buildings, paint and props that, when projected onscreen, absorbs the audience in a world that they know — instantly, intimately — is real, though they’ve never seen it before.

Thank you for your patience while we verify access.

Already a subscriber? Log in.

Want all of The Times? Subscribe.

NY Times · by Noah Gallagher Shannon · October 20, 2023