# Document: What Happens When BaseballStats Nerds Run a ProTeam_042416_20250819_090725.html

What Happens When Baseball-Stats Nerds Run a Pro Team?

NY Times · by Sam Miller · April 23, 2016

Opinion

IN 2015, the Sonoma Stompers, the team with one of the lowest payrolls in the Pacific Association, a professional baseball league near San Francisco, did something desperate: It handed its baseball-operations department to a couple of stat-savvy writers with no baseball-management experience, Ben Lindbergh and me.

We are devotees of the statistical school known as Sabermetrics, a word coined by Bill James and made mainstream by “Moneyball.” In short, number crunching. What we lacked in experience we made up for with a long paper trail of claims about how baseball teams should be run.

Theo Fightmaster, the Stompers general manager, hired us. In spring training, he introduced Ben, a writer for the website FiveThirtyEight, and me as “experts in statistical analysis.” We addressed the players and laid out our goals for the season: to lead the league in the first half, and in the second half, to go undefeated.

We were in charge of roster building and team strategy. We signed and cut players, built a scouting department with a volunteer staff of eight, installed high-tech cameras to track pitches on our home field and told our fielders precisely where to stand.

With the advantage of data and a willingness to subvert baseball orthodoxy, we could play the kind of baseball we’d only theorized about: efficient, imaginative, weird. Bring on the all-reliever pitching staff, the algorithm that would tell our pitcher which pitch to throw in each count and the clunky swinger whose exceptional college stats put him atop our spreadsheet-generated wish list.

Sure enough, with a talented team of returning veterans and spreadsheet discoveries, we won the first-half crown, with a record of 26-11.

Thank you for your patience while we verify access.

Already a subscriber? Log in.

Want all of The Times? Subscribe.

NY Times · by Sam Miller · April 23, 2016