# Document: Job Interviews Are Broken Theres a Way to Fix Them  The New YorkTimes_090120_20250818_154459.html

Job Interviews Are Broken. There’s a Way to Fix Them. - The New York Times

NY Times · by Adam Grant · May 1, 2020

Instead of focusing on credentials, let’s give candidates the chance to showcase their will and skill to learn.

By

May 1, 2020

Within the first few minutes of the interview, I knew the candidate was a bad fit for a sales position. His résumé had tipped me off: He was a math major and built robots in his spare time. Now we were sitting face-to-face in my office, but he hardly made any eye contact. When I told my boss I wasn’t going to hire him because of that, she said, “You know this is a phone sales job, right?”

For decades, managers have bet on the wrong people — and rejected the right ones. The Kansas City Star once rejected an application from a cartoonist named Walt Disney. Record labels said no thanks to the Beatles, Madonna, U2, Kanye and Ed Sheeran. A hotel, a police department and a Kentucky Fried Chicken all denied Jack Ma a job. And 30 N.F.L. teams decided not to draft Tom Brady.

It doesn’t have to be that way. In organizational psychology, we have over a century of evidence on why job interviews fail and how to fix them. If managers learn to overcome three basic mistakes, they can get better at spotting diamonds in the rough.

The first mistake is asking the wrong kinds of questions. Some questions are just too easy to fake. What’s your greatest weakness? Even Michael Scott, the inept manager in the TV show “The Office,” aced that one: “I work too hard. I care too much.” Other questions reveal more about the manager who’s asking than the candidate who’s responding. How many paper clips would fit in Yankee Stadium? Brainteasers turn out to be useless for predicting job performance, but useful for identifying sadistic managers, who seem to enjoy stumping people.

We’re better off asking behavioral questions. Tell me about a time when …. Past behavior can help us anticipate future behavior. But sometimes they’re easy to game, especially for candidates with more experience. We can get around those issues by including some situational questions. What would you do if .… Pick a challenge that’s important for success in the job and your culture, and we can learn something valuable about how candidates will lead, handle conflicts and solve problems.

The second error is focusing on the wrong criteria. At banks and law firms, managers often favor people who went to the same school or share their love of lacrosse. Across industries and occupations, economists find that even when candidates’ résumé are identical, those with white-sounding names like Allison and Matthew get 50 percent more callbacks than those with African-American-sounding names like Lakisha and Jamal. There’s evidence that birthmarks, being pregnant and being overweight can put candidates at a disadvantage. And believe it or not, bald men are seen as having more leadership potential if they shave their heads (which is obviously why I shave my head).

Thank you for your patience while we verify access.

Already a subscriber? Log in.

Want all of The Times? Subscribe.

NY Times · by Adam Grant · May 1, 2020