# Document: =UTF-8qA_New_Murdoch_Suit_&_Bannon=E2=80=99s_MAGA_Wish_List=_Wed,_27_Nov_2024_20-16-24_+0000_1936f44a23c24c6c_20250819_090723.html

Dunne Family Ties, Crypto’s $6.2M Banana, Media M&A Chatter ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

View
                        email in browser Dunne Family Ties, Crypto’s $6.2M Banana, Media M&A Chatter Welcome back to a special pre -Thanksgiving edition of The Daily Courant, your afternoon roundup of Puck’s best new reporting. First up today, Eriq Gardner digs into the latest lawsuit against Fox News, where angry investors are claiming that the network’s embrace of right-wing conspiracy theories saddled the company with astronomical legal fees. Does Rupert Murdoch ’s counterpunch—that free speech outweighs fiduciary responsibility—offer an unexpected roadmap for navigating the potentially hostile environment for media under Trump 2.0? Plus, below the fold: Peter Hamby presents his sprawling conversation with Steve Bannon , the Rasputin of the MAGA movement, about his unholy wishlist for the next administration. Marion Maneker spotlights the latest art market themes after New York’s auction houses raked in $1.3 billion last week. And in a special conversation presented by
Meta, Baratunde Thurston connects with John Ourand to discuss the transformative impact of A.I. on the sports industry. Meanwhile, on Impolitic , John Heilemann rings up Hollywood triple threat Griffin Dunne to discuss his recent memoir and the legacy of his celebrated literary family. On The Varsity , John Ourand and Bill Cohan consider the possible fate of Comcast’s SpinCo and the starring role of private equity. And on The Powers That Be , Marion convenes with Peter Hamby to make sense of the $6.2 million sale of Maurizio Cattelan ’s duct-taped banana. A New Murdoch Suit & R.F.K.’s Cable Bomb ERIQ GARDNER A group of angry investors is suing Fox News, claiming that its pandering to right-wing conspiracies saddled the company with legal costs they should have avoided. Murdoch is claiming free speech outweighs fiduciary responsibility, and many in the media are hoping he wins. A MESSAGE FROM GOLDMAN SACHS 2025 starts now with the sharpest forecasts on next year’s global economy from Goldman Sachs. Explore a comprehensive range of viewpoints — from the specialists on the trading floor to the independent research desks — on the year ahead. Read the Outlooks Loose Bannon PETER HAMBY The Rasputin of the MAGA movement has big plans for the new world order under Donald Trump—mass deportations, checking China, working with Elon and dismantling McConnell’s Senate—and if it requires a little “smash mouth” to get it done, so be it. In the meantime, he’ll be tuned in to MSNBC, watching the Democratic civil war unfold. Ken Griffin’s Magritte & Other Auction War Stories MARION MANEKER There were heroes amid the $1.3 billion in sales during last week’s New York auctions, and a couple humbling moments, too. But a closer inspection reveals something less flashy: steady, systematic gains for an art market that’s finally recovering from its post-pandemic malaise. BradyGPT BARATUNDE THURSTON A head-spinning conversation with Puck’s John Ourand about how A.I. is personalizing live sports, supercharging prop betting, and helping broadcasters go global. Could A.I. commentators be next? Griffin Dunne: All in the Family JOHN HEILEMANN John is joined by actor and director Griffin Dunne to discuss his memoir about his famous family. Dunne offers intimate portraits of his sister Dominique, an actress on the rise four decades ago who was strangled to death; his father, whose coverage of Dominique’s murder trial turned him into the marquee chronicler of celebrity true-crime cases; and his aunt, Joan Didion, about whom Griffin made an acclaimed Netflix documentary. Media Merger Mania & The Celtics L.B.O. JOHN OURAND Bill Cohan joins John to assess the fate of Comcast’s Spinco, the potential involvement of private equity, and the snowball effect it could have on the industry writ large. Then Bill previews some potential M&A activity in the media space before recounting the surprising backstory to Wyc Grousbeck’s leveraged buyout of the Boston Celtics. Crypto’s $6.2M Banana PETER HAMBY & MARION MANEKER Marion Maneker joins Peter to unpack the discourse surrounding Maurizio Cattelan’s duct-taped banana, which just sold to a crypto zillionaire for a mind-blowing $6.2 million. Plus, Marion digs into this November’s auction house sales and whether the art market is reviving from the doldrums. Need help? Review our FAQs
                                    page or contact
                                    us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 227 W 17th St New York, NY 10011.