# Document: The Puck Crier Holiday Retail Dirty Secrets_Tue,_17_Dec_2024_16-02-35_+0000_193d55b763c5a2cb_20250819_090726.eml

This Thursday, December 19, at 5:00 p.m. ET, Lauren Sherman and Line Sheet’s new retail correspondent, Sarah Shapiro, will join the Inner Circle to discuss the future of American malls, the truth about the affiliate marketing industry, which D.T.C. brands are thriving, and much more.

Puck’s Inner Circle Call Dear Reader, This Thursday, December 19, at 5:00 p.m. ET , Lauren Sherman and Line Sheet’s new retail correspondent, Sarah Shapiro , will join the Inner Circle to discuss the future of American malls, the truth about the affiliate marketing industry, which D.T.C. brands are thriving, and much more. These exclusive calls are reserved for Puck’s Inner Circle, our highest tier of membership, which offers access to special events, new product features, and off-the-record discussions like this one. If you don’t want to miss out on these exclusive conversations with our world-class journalists, upgrade to our Inner Circle tier before tomorrow; you’ll receive an invitation to join the call with Lauren and Sarah, plus access to all future calls and Inner Circle events . Click the link below, or go to My Account > Billing > Update Plan and select Inner Circle . Upon selection, your card on file will be charged for the upgrade, and you’ll immediately become a member of our Inner Circle for the remainder of your subscription. See you on the inside. Fritz UPGRADE TODAY You received this message because you signed up to receive emails from Puck. Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up for Puck here Sent to puck@khamel.com unsubscribe Interested in exploring our newsletter offerings? Manage your preferences Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 227 W 17th St New York, NY 10011 For support, just reply to this e-mail. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news