# Document: Asianometry on Japan's Chemical Dominance, Stratechery Updates, and Chinese New Year Schedule Changes (Stratechery Update 1-29-2025)_Wed,_29_Jan_2025_11-28-10_+0000_194b1d1b715180e6_20250819_090726.eml

Chinese New Year wishes, and a scheduling adjustment.

View in browser Asianometry on Japan's Chemical Dominance, Stratechery Updates, and Chinese New Year Schedule Changes Wednesday, January 29, 2025 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Good morning, Today is Chinese New Year — 新年快樂！— and while this was originally scheduled to be a day off, there are a host of Big Tech earnings coming out today and tomorrow. I'm particularly interested in management commentary given the news of the last week, so I'm making a (very rare!) scheduling adjustment: tomorrow I will publish an Update likely covering Meta and/or Microsoft, and then publish the weekly Stratechery Interview on Friday. Second, I wanted to apologize again for anyone that had issues last week with the updates to Stratechery. This was, as you might have surmised, a pretty massive update that extended far beyond the website redesign, including significant database changes to Passport. That part actually went fine — the latest version has been running on SemiAnalysis for a couple of months — but we did run into several interlocking issues that were related to previous migrations. There were also a few bugs that only manifested at Stratechery scale, including some CDN issues, some issues related to how the Stratechery bundle works, and maddeningly, a third party library update to our UUID encoding library that dropped characters for IDs that started 00. It was very much a "when it rains it pours" situation. Regardless, I did not deliver the user experience that I want to, and I'm sorry. What is particularly disappointing is that these bugs may have overshadowed the biggest news surrounding the upgrade, which was the addition of the Asianometry podcast and newsletter to the Stratechery Plus bundle. Please do check out my introductory post , if you missed it, as well as the Interview I did with Jon Yu . One of the most interesting aspects of that Interview was our discussion about Japan's dominance of many of the chemicals involved in manufacturing semiconductors, and Jon just came out with a new YouTube video about exactly that: To listen to this video as a podcast, you can click "Add Asianometry" at the bottom of this email; to read the transcript visit the Asianometry Passport site , and while you're there visit your account page to receive transcripts by email. I'm thrilled to have Jon on board, and wish him and you a happy year of the snake! See you tomorrow. Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China Greatest Of All Talk | Asianometry Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com Member since: April 23, 2022 Your subscription renews every year Renewal date: December 8, 2025 You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. Click here to unsubscribe. © 2025 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703