# Document: Healthcare Distress LooksVigorous_051524_20250818_154459.html

💥Healthcare Distress Looks Vigorous💥

Forwarded this email? Subscribe here for more

Isn’t this paywall annoying? Join 29k+ lawyers, investment bankers, financial advisors, investors and others and get access to all of our content:

Upgrade to paid

For group rates, email us at petition@petition11.com.

For student rates, you’re in luck ⬇️:

Give me that student rate!

. Read Time (sans paywall) = 17.2 a$$-kicking minutes.

Steward Health Care Files for BK; Another value-based care operator may follow it.

May 15

READ IN APP

On May 6th, 2024 Steward Health Care System LLC (“Steward”) and 166 affiliates (together, the “debtors”) filed chapter 11 bankruptcy cases in the Southern District of Texas (Judge Lopez); it operates 31 hospitals and over 400 facility locations across 10 states through its network of 4,500 primary and specialty care physicians, making it “…the largest private, physician-owned health care network in the United States, providing care to more than two million patients annually.” And the world was taken by surprise by the filing!

Just kidding. Literally nobody was taken by surprise by the filing: ...

Subscribe to PETITION to read the rest.

Become a paying subscriber of PETITION to get access to this post and other subscriber-only content.

Upgrade to paid

A subscription gets you:

Subscribers'-only Wednesday and Sunday briefings

Full Archive Access

Source Deals, Win Deals, Learn about Deals, and Sound Smart at Biz Dev Events

Like

Comment

Restack

© 2024 Petition LLC Petition LLC, 412 N. Main Street, STE 100 Buffalo, Wyoming 82834, Email: petition@petition11.com Twitter: @petition Unsubscribe