# Document: Apple and Antitrust for Aggregators, DMA Investigations and Apple's Risk (Stratechery Update 3-27-2024)_Wed,_27_Mar_2024_13-22-16_+0000_18e801374455037f_20250818_154500.eml

A much better antitrust case against Apple would focus on developers, not customers. Then, the E.U. is investigating all of American tech under the DMA; the chances of Apple leaving are not zero.

View in browser Apple and Antitrust for Aggregators, DMA Investigations and Apple's Risk Wednesday, March 27, 2024 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Good morning, On the most recent episode of Sharp China , Andrew and Bill discussed China’s cybersecurity law and the likelihood that the TikTok bill dies in the Senate. On to the update: Apple and Antitrust for Aggregators I know that there has been a lot of Apple antitrust talk this week, but (1) it’s obviously a huge story, (2) there aren’t any other major happenings this week, and (3) there is one more point that I think is very important to make: there was a very cogent antitrust case to make against Apple, with an emphasis on the past tense; unfortunately, the Supreme Court took it off the table in 2019. At a high level, Apple, particularly when it comes to apps, is an Aggregator: this means they control demand (iPhone users), and have power over suppliers (iPhone developers). That is why they can charge a 30% tax without there being any meaningful impact on end-user pricing, first because most developers are commoditized, and second because even differentiated developers have no choice but to pay Apple in order to keep their customers happy. It follows, then, that the group that needs antitrust protection from Apple is not consumers but rather developers. This is a critical question for antitrust, because only one of the two groups can have standing to sue about App Store fees. I explained why in 2018’s Antitrust, the App Store, and Apple , which covered a lawsuit from Apple consumers ( Pepper ) alleging that they were overcharged for iOS apps because of Apple’s monopolistic control of the App Store: The question before the Supreme Court is whether or not Pepper et al. have standing to sue Apple for antitrust violations at all; in other words, the case — which was launched in 2011 — hasn’t even started yet. The Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 stated that “any person who shall be injured in his business or property by reasons of anything forbidden in the antitrust laws” can bring an antitrust action, but in the 1977 case Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois , the Supreme Court held that only direct purchasers of illegally priced goods had standing to sue. The specifics of the Illinois Brick case are helpful in parsing out what makes the Apple case complex; specifically, the Illinois Brick value chain was very straightforward: concrete block makers (including the eponymous Illinois Brick Company) were accused of colluding to fix prices for concrete blocks, which were bought by masonry contractors; masonry contractors in turn submitted bids to general contractors for construction projects, which were ultimately paid for by the State of Illinois. The State of Illinois sued for damages, alleging that the higher prices resulting from the price fixing had been passed through to the State of Illinois. In this value chain it is obvious who the direct purchasers were: masonry contractors; to the extent the State of Illinois suffered harm it was indirect pass-through harm. Thus, the Supreme Court ruled that the State of Illinois did not have standing; if every party in the value chain were to sue, the infringing party could be subject to duplicative recovery for damages (and parsing out the share of damages would be extremely difficult). The reason why Apple v. Pepper was complex is that the value chain is not clear: do consumers buy apps from Apple (and thus have standing to sue about the App Store), or do they buy from developers (which means developers have standing, not consumers). Apple — and me, in that Article — thought that the answer was the former. Apple argues that developers set the price of their apps, which determines Apple’s 30% cut, and to the extent developers set prices higher to compensate for that cut they are passing on alleged harm to consumers — which means consumers don’t have standing to sue… With the caveat that I am not a lawyer, I believe that Apple has the stronger position in this case for two reasons: the first are the arguments laid out above. The second, though, come back to Aggregation Theory: I believe that Apple has power over developers (supply) precisely because it has all of the consumers (demand); it follows, then, that it is far more likely that developers are pricing according to what the consumer market will bear and internalizing the App Store fee, as opposed to pricing their products artificially high in order to pass the cost of that fee on to customers. And, well, that goes back to the first point: even if they are pricing their products artificially high that is an ipso facto example of pass-through harm, which means consumers don’t have standing. The plaintiff’s case only makes sense in a world where there is a scarcity of apps with pricing power such that consumers are forced to bear 100% of Apple’s add-on; the reality is that apps are already as cheap as can be and it is developers that are being directly harmed by Apple’s policies. Ultimately, though, the Supreme Court disagreed and ruled for Pepper, et al, granting consumers standing. That, as I noted in an Update , likely closed the door to a developer-focused antitrust lawsuit about App Store fees: Frankly, I do believe that developers are being harmed by Apple’s policies, and I do believe those policies are illegal. The implication of that, though, is that it is developers who should have the right to sue Apple, not consumers. Indeed, the majority’s arguments that there would not be a sort of “double jeopardy” with regards to damages — one of the motivating factors behind the Illinois Brick decision in the first place — is not at all compelling: Apple claims that allowing consumers to sue will result in “conflicting claims to a common fund—the amount of the alleged overcharge.” Apple is incorrect. This is not a case where multiple parties at different levels of a distribution chain are trying to all recover the same passed-through overcharge initially levied by the manufacturer at the top of the chain. I honestly don’t understand this argument: there is one alleged overcharge — Apple’s 30% commission — and it is hard to understand how it is that both consumers and developers can have a case without both seeking “the same passed-through overcharge”. The dissent makes the same point: Courts will have to divvy up the commissions Apple collected between the developers and the consumers. To do that, they’ll have to figure out which party bore what portion of the overcharge in every purchase. And if the developers bring suit separately from the consumers, Apple might be at risk of duplicative damages awards totaling more than the full amount it collected in commissions. As both the majority and dissent note, the entire reason behind the Illinois Brick decision was to avoid exactly these sorts of determinations: having one set of damages pursued by two distinct parties is both impractical and overreaching when it comes to judicial power. That the majority waves away this point is shocking. There is, I would note, one other angle for a developer lawsuit that didn’t exist at that time: App Tracking Transparency. I wrote yesterday in defense of Apple against the DOJ: Start off with the fact that Apple isn’t doing anything new here: its products have always been predicated on integration generally, and the only meaningful change in Apple’s policies with regards to 3rd-party apps has been to create the App Store in the first place. The situation would be very different if Apple were locking its platform down after the fact, but that isn’t really what has happened. This is about consumers; the story with developers is very different, because App Tracking Transparency absolutely did change the deal in an economically destructive way for developers, and to Apple’s economic benefit . This seems like a far more productive angle for an antitrust case than trying to show that consumers are unhappy with their iPhones. I would also note this idea of getting it backwards applies to other areas of the case: instead of suing Apple for making Apple Watches work better with iPhones in order to increase switching costs, wouldn’t it make more sense to argue that Apple is leveraging its iPhone dominance into smart watchdominance? You could make the same case with AirPods, or the Vision Pro. It’s the same thing with the NFC chip: is the problem that Apple’s wallet is locking people to iPhones, or that Apple is leveraging iPhones to dominate digital wallets? I don’t, to be clear, agree that these are all bad — I’ve made the case repeatedly this week that Apple ought to be able to deliver on its integration promises. The advantage of making these arguments, though, is that at least they align with common sense about the actual effect of Apple’s approach on adjacent markets and who is actually harmed (not consumers!). That, though, would mean actually understanding Aggregation Theory, which no one associated with the modern antitrust movement wants to do , because the inevitable takeaway is that current antitrust law is completely unsuited to Aggregators; you need new laws . DMA Investigations and Apple’s Risk I’m going to knock this one out quick, just so we can get all of this regulatory stuff out of the way before the week is over. From a European Commission press release : Today, the Commission has opened non-compliance investigations under the Digital Markets Act (DMA) into Alphabet’s rules on steering in Google Play and self-preferencing on Google Search, Apple’s rules on steering in the App Store and the choice screen for Safari and Meta’s “pay or consent model”. The Commission suspects that the measures put in place by these gatekeepers fall short of effective compliance of their obligations under the DMA. In addition, the Commission has launched investigatory steps relating to Apple’s new fee structure for alternative app stores and Amazon’s ranking practices on its marketplace. Finally, the Commission has ordered gatekeepers to retain certain documents to monitor the effective implementation and compliance with their obligations. Well, that didn’t take long, and speaks to one of the biggest flaws with European regulation: it’s completely vague and you only know if you’re in compliance if you do not get investigated. Oops! Of the actions listed, the Meta one is both the most unjust, and the most surprising: there is nothing in the DMA explicitly about data collection; rather, the justification appears to be that it is “unfair.” Never mind that demanding a company provide its services at a business model of regulators’ own choosing — which apparently is only untargeted ads — is very much unfair. Meta is offering users the choice of targeted ads or paying a subscription fee; the latter is an eminently reasonable alternative for European citizens who don’t want their data collected. To insist that Meta’s products must remain free with drastically less profitable un-targeted ads is bordering on nationalization (continentalization?). Indeed, a ruling against Meta in this instance would absolutely justify Meta’s withdrawal from the E.U. completely: why should the company provide a service when it is barred from monetizing it, with or without user data? In truth, though, Meta probably doesn’t have any choice but to go along: the value of a network is a function of how many people are on that network, and while most people’s networks are surely intra-continental, there are inter-continental connections as well; in other words, cutting off E.U. countries from Meta apps would make the product worse for Meta’s customers outside of the E.U. It’s worth pointing out that the situation is meaningfully different for Apple in particular. John Gruber has a post at Daring Fireball highlighting the relatively small amount of money Apple makes in the E.U.: A few readers have asked about my speculation that Apple, along with the other DMA-designated gatekeepers (none of which are European companies of course), might reasonably pull out of the relatively small EU market rather than risk facing disproportionately large fines from the European Commission. The DMA allows the EC to fine gatekeepers up to 10 percent of global revenue (which would hit a hardware-based company like Apple particularly hard) for a first offense, and up to 20 percent for subsequent fines. But the EU represents only 7 percent of Apple’s revenue. That figure comes from CFO Luca Maestri on Apple’s Q1 2024 analyst call . Gruber’s point about hardware is important in two respects: First, as Gruber notes, Apple’s revenues are much higher than advertising-based companies, particularly on a per-user basis, but that is in part because their costs are much higher — they have to actually make the phones! The E.U. fine structure, though, doesn’t make any provision for cost structures, which means Apple is uniquely at risk from fines based on worldwide revenue (the situation is even worse for Amazon). Second, the implication of Apple being a hardware company is that they are not primarily a network-effects based service (because no hardware company can serve the whole market, and iMessage is not widely used in the E.U.). Yes, Apple’s business model has networks effects — the App Store is a two-sided network of developers and users — but it’s not a Meta-style peer-to-peer network whose value is a function of the number of participants; Apple just needs a sufficient number of developers and users to attract the other, and they would have that absent the E.U. All of that is to say that I think that Gruber’s warning that Apple might consider leaving the E.U. should be taken seriously. Indeed, I would go further: you can make the case that Apple is being foolhardy in not leaving the E.U., given the size of the potential fines relative to the E.U.’s contribution to Apple’s bottom line, and relative unimportance to Apple’s overall business. That said, I don’t expect that to happen soon, if at all: whatever you think of Apple’s E.U. compliance plans , they put a considerable amount of resources into them, and, cliché as this may sound, I don’t think the company wants to abandon its customers or developers in the E.U. The situation, though, is increasingly untenable, and while I think it is likely Apple finally builds what the E.U. wants (whenever it figures that out), particularly since the actual levy of fines would take years to wind through a post-European Commission court case, I don’t think the chance of an exit is zero, either. This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery . The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day! Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China | Greatest Of All Talk Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com Member since: April 23, 2022 Your subscription renews every year Renewal date: December 8, 2024 You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. Click here to unsubscribe. © 2024 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703