# Document: Micron's China Ban; Neeva Gives Up on Search; Uber and Waymo, Finally (Stratechery Update 5-31-2023)_Wed,_31_May_2023_14-23-35_+0000_1887231671dc80af_20250818_154459.html

Micron takes a hit in the U.S.-China tech war, Neeva gives up on search (and is acquired by Snowflake), and Uber and Waymo finally partner up.

View in browser Micron's China Ban; Neeva Gives Up on Search; Uber and Waymo, Finally Wednesday, May 31, 2023 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Good morning, On this week’s Sharp China Andrew and Bill discussed the latest failed attempt at a US-China defense dialog, Tesla in China, and Microsoft’s malware discovery in Guam. On to the update: Micron’s China Ban From the Wall Street Journal : China is banning major Chinese firms from buying from Micron Technology, saying its products pose a major national-security risk. The move caps an investigation that underscores strained relations between Beijing and Washington. The Cyberspace Administration of China said Sunday its review of Micron products found “significant security risks” that would affect national security and warned operators of key Chinese information infrastructure—such as telecommunications firms and state-owned banks—against purchasing the company’s goods. Micron makes memory chips — both DRAM (used for processing) and NAND (used for storage) — and is generally strongest in consumer products like PCs and smartphones; that right there should shield the company from incurring a major hit in terms of revenue, at least in the short term. At the same time, from what I have heard, Chinese server OEMs are already pausing orders not just for Micron memory directly, but also for components that include Micron memory; it will likely take some time to figure out what exactly is banned and what isn’t, and to what extent those bans spill-over into seemingly unrelated products. Meanwhile, from Bloomberg : Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said the US “won’t tolerate” the recent decision by Chinese authorities to ban chips by Micron Technology Inc. in some critical sectors, using her sharpest language yet to describe Washington’s reaction. “We see it as, plain and simple, economic coercion,” she said, using a phrase both sides have lobbed at each other amid recent tensions. “We won’t tolerate it, nor do we think it will be successful.” The latest technology tensions between the two global powers kicked off last Sunday, when the Cyberspace Administration of China warned operators of key infrastructure against buying Idaho-based Micron’s chips, saying it found “relatively serious” risks after concluding a review it announced in March. That followed a sweeping ban by the US in October on exports to China of high-end chips and the technology to make them. The brief statement from China’s Cyberspace Administration didn’t specify why specifically the Micron chips were banned; the safest assumption, particularly given the brevity of the security review, is that this is retaliation for last fall’s chip ban. The fact that Micron is an obvious target is an even better reason to make this assumption: memory is commoditized, which means that Micron products will be relatively easy to replace with — ideally from China’s perspective — homegrown alternatives or, more likely, South Korean chips. To that end, two dueling stories on that topic, starting with the Financial Times : Seoul has signalled it will not intervene to stop South Korean companies Samsung and SK Hynix from filling in a market gap after China imposed a ban on US chipmaker Micron, in an escalation of the tech battle between the superpowers. Last month, the White House quietly asked South Korea to urge its chipmakers to hold back from boosting sales to China if the sale of Micron products was restricted by Beijing. But policymakers in Seoul on Monday said they were unwilling to wade into the dispute and would defer to the companies. Then Bloomberg , a few days later: South Korea will avoid capitalizing on China’s ban on a US chipmaker, seeing the move by Beijing as an attempt to drive a wedge between Seoul and Washington, according to a person familiar with the situation. The South Korean government won’t encourage its memory-chip firms to grab market share in China lost by Micron Technology Inc., which has been barred for use in critical industries by Beijing on national security grounds, said the person, who asked not to be identified as the topic is politically sensitive. The second story is framed as a step-back from the first, but frankly, they seem like the same stance to me, and a reasonable one. The South Korean government isn’t going to get involved, beyond saying what the U.S. wants to hear, in large part because it’s not at all clear what the government could do otherwise. Take the example of the component maker I heard about above: if that component maker starts buying South Korean memory so that it can continue selling to Chinese server OEMs, then have Samsung or SK Hynix done anything wrong or, more importantly, done anything even detectable? This goes back to why it makes sense for China to target Micron: memory is largely a commodity, which means they can punish a U.S. company without hurting their interests, but that also limits the damage to Micron as well; the more that South Korean memory suppliers sell to Chinese firms, the less supply they will have to sell elsewhere, even as Micron has more supply than they might have otherwise to fill in the resultant gap. To that end, Raimondo’s comments seem like a mistake to me on a few counts. First, the hypocrisy is pretty embarrassing: I suppose there is a difference between banning sales to a particular country versus banning imports into your own country, but it’s pretty rich for the U.S. to complain about any China-related chip actions at this point. Second, it seems unwise to bluster about how the U.S. “won’t tolerate” this action; yes, the U.S. has power over both South Korean memory makers given that both rely on U.S. licenses to operate fabs located in China, but given that the market will probably solve this particular issue for Micron why threaten action that isn’t necessary? The fact of the matter is that the U.S. continues to hold nearly all of the cards when it comes to Chips and China , at least in the near to medium term, and everyone knows it, including China. To that end, it might have been useful to let China have some sort of propaganda win that ultimately wouldn’t mean much in the end, particularly given China’s other obvious angle for retaliation — blocking Intel’s desperately needed Tower acquisition — is still in purgatory. Neeva Gives Up on Search From the the company blog for Neeva , the for-pay search engine founded by former SVP of Google Ads Sridhar Ramaswamy and former VP of YouTube Monetization Vivek Raghunathan: We started Neeva with the mission to take search back to its users. Having worked on search and search ads for over a decade, we sincerely believed that there was space for a model of search that put user and not advertiser interests first—a private, ads-free experience. Building search engines is hard. It is even harder to do with a tiny team of 50 people who are up against entrenched organizations with endless resources. We overcame these obstacles and built a search stack from the ground up, running a crawl that fetched petabytes of information from the web and used that to power an independent search stack… But throughout this journey, we’ve discovered that it is one thing to build a search engine, and an entirely different thing to convince regular users of the need to switch to a better choice. From the unnecessary friction required to change default search settings, to the challenges in helping people understand the difference between a search engine and a browser, acquiring users has been really hard. Contrary to popular belief, convincing users to pay for a better experience was actually a less difficult problem compared to getting them to try a new search engine in the first place. Three days later Snowflake announced it was acquiring Neeva for an undisclosed amount — i.e. not much — which leads to a couple of takeaways: First, here is yet another example that new products have to be massively better than an incumbent to even gain trial from customers; being just a little bit better isn’t nearly enough, particularly when your primary vector of differentiation is something consumers don’t care about. Second, to that point, here is yet another example that consumers do not value privacy as a differentiating factor worth switching for, particularly if that factor comes at a monetary cost. Third, that Neeva was almost certainly sold for less than it raised to anyone-other-than-Apple is yet another example that the iPhone maker has no interest in competing with Google in search, and would much prefer to be paid billions of dollars a year to give customers what they would probably prefer to use regardless. Neeva actually seems like a pretty good acquisition for Snowflake, particularly given Neeva’s recent push into LLM-driven conversational interfaces. SVP of Product Christian Kleinerman said on Snowflake’s earnings call : The broad vision that we communicated to all of you over the last several years is Snowflake is on a mission to extend its capabilities, so we can bring computation to happen close to the data. It has evolved us into an application platform. And a core use case for applications is not only search and search enabled experiences, but with the advent of generative AI is the notion of conversational experiences. The folks from Neeva are the ones that are going to power or help us accelerate the efforts around Snowflake as a platform for search and conversational experiences, but most importantly within the security perimeter of Snowflake with the customers’ data so that they can leverage all this new innovation and technology, but with the safety on the privacy and security of the data. Remember, Microsoft just announced Fabric , which, it is safe to assume, is starting out well behind Snowflake as far as capabilities are concerned, but with conversation AI infused into the product from the beginning, while DataBricks has developed its own LLM . To that end, acquiring engineers who are already focused on LLM interfaces seems like a reasonable defensive move by Snowflake. Uber and Waymo, Finally From The Verge : Waymo’s robotaxis will be available to hail for rides and food delivery on Uber’s app in Phoenix later this year, the result of a new partnership that the two former rivals announced today. A “set number” of Waymo vehicles will be available to Uber riders and Uber Eats delivery customers in Phoenix, where the Alphabet company recently doubled its service area to 180 square miles. The partnership was described as “multi-year,” with the goal of bringing together “Waymo’s world-leading autonomous driving technology with the massive scale of Uber’s ridesharing and delivery networks.” Speaking of examples, this is a very good one in terms of how long it can take for obvious things to happen; I wrote in 2017 : The reality would — may — be more complicated. I think Google would likely be better off licensing its technology in the long run; indeed, it seems blindingly obvious that Google and Uber should have been partners. In fact, there is a strong analogy to Apple and Google: it ought to have been Apple making iPhones and Google providing services, to the benefit of both. In that case Google wanted more, and the price it paid was dear: default access to the most attractive part of the market. One can certainly make the case that Google made the same mistake here: by wanting it all it lost the easiest path to a very lucrative market; a prize of punitive damages would be a very paltry one in comparison. It took a bunch of lawsuits and a completely new set of executives, but the blindingly obvious partnership is now a reality! Let’s see if it takes a longer or shorter amount of time for said partnership to actually amount to anything. This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery . The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day! Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China | GOAT Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com Member since: December 8, 2022 Auto-renewal is disabled Expiration date: December 8, 2023 You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. © 2023 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703