# Document: =UTF-8qCNN=E2=80=99s_Defamation_Danger_&_Stephen_A._Economics=_Wed,_11_Dec_2024_20-01-39_+0000_193b7507d3d831b3_20250819_090726.eml

Dems’ Big Chill, Murdoch’s Succession Shocker, Netflix Trial Agita ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

View
                        email in browser Dems’ Big Chill, Murdoch’s Succession Shocker, Netflix Trial Agita Welcome back to The Daily Courant, your pocket guide to Puck’s best new reporting. First up today, Eriq Gardner sifts through three legal disputes captivating media insiders from Hollywood to Washington— Zachary Young ’s libel suit against CNN, Netflix’s first-ever jury trial, and the appellate ruling upholding the TikTok ban—and what they portend about First Amendment litigation under Trump 2.0. Plus, below the fold: Marion Maneker investigates the latest round of layoffs at Sotheby’s and the dizzying ramifications for the 280-year-old auction house. Abby Livingston probes the Dems’ tactical silence toward Trump’s cabinet nominees and a fresh round of House G.O.P. infighting. On Somebody’s Gotta Win , Tara Palmeri connects with Dylan Byers to examine the pitiable state of cable news and how the media might address Trump’s second presidency. On The Varsity , John Ourand and WaPo ’s Ben Strauss dig into Stephen A. ’s soon-to-be historic contract, Big Ten’s football switcheroo, and the shocking non-bidders for the FIFA Women’s World Cup. And on The Powers That Be , Eriq sits down with Peter Hamby to unravel the latest twist in Rupert Murdoch ’s high-stakes succession battle against his children. Netflix’s First Jury Trial & CNN’s Defamation Danger ERIQ GARDNER A suite of cases involving Netflix, TikTok, and CNN hint at the future of First Amendment litigation under Trump 2.0. A MESSAGE FROM META Open source AI helps more people build amazing things. Meta’s open source AI is available to all, not just the few. Which means more people can build amazing things. It enables small businesses, start-ups, students, researchers and more to download and build with our models at no cost. Learn more about open source AI. Sotheby’s Black Tuesday MARION MANEKER Shortly after closing on a $1 billion financing, the 280-year-old auction house is drastically cutting back staff in offices around the world. With new real estate that emphasizes luxury retail and plans to exploit the power of its brand, what does the future look like for a leaner, meaner Sotheby’s? Democrats’ Big Chill ABBY LIVINGSTON Trump’s unusually early cabinet appointment timeline has given his nominees time to wear down reluctant G.O.P. senators. It’s also given Democrats a chance to shut up, sit back, and watch the Republican infighting. But sitting quietly has never been one of their strengths. Dylan Byers on How to Cover Trump 2.0 TARA PALMERI Tara is joined by Puck’s own Dylan Byers to talk about Donald Trump’s relationship with the media and investigative journalism. They discuss how Trump’s previous administration altered modern political discourse, speculate on the future of big cable news after the last election cycle, and shine a light on how the media has to change the way it covers his upcoming presidency. Stephen A. Breaks the Bank & World Cup Media Limbo JOHN OURAND Ben Strauss reunites with John to delve into a litany of hot topics stimulating the world of sports media: Stephen A. Smith’s soon-to-be historic contract, Big Ten football’s noon kickoffs, ESPN’s MNF Simpsons alt-cast, the surprising non-bidders for the FIFA Women’s World Cup, and more. The Murdoch Succession Shocker & TikTok’s Trump Card PETER HAMBY & ERIQ GARDNER Legal expert Eriq Gardner joins Peter to explain the latest twist in Rupert Murdoch’s high-stakes succession battle against his children. Then they debate the chances that Trump saves TikTok now that a federal court has upheld the app’s ban, slated for January. Need help? Review our FAQs
                                    page or contact
                                    us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 227 W 17th St New York, NY 10011.