# Document: An NFL Powder Keg & An Art Market Bank Run_Wed,_03_Jul_2024_20-04-44_+0000_1907a331d38409d9_20250818_154458.html

TikTok Omerta, Biden Media Games & The End of Pay TV ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌

View
                        email in browser TikTok Omerta, Biden Media Games & The End of Pay TV Welcome back to The Daily Courant, your afternoon roundup of the best new journalism on Puck. First up today, Matt Belloni and John Ourand break down the multibillion-dollar Sunday Ticket penalty facing the NFL, an antitrust reckoning that could could rapidly remake the world of live sports on streaming—and accelerate the crack-up of linear TV. Plus, below the fold: Eriq Gardner examines why Hollywood has been sitting on the sidelines as the TikTok ban heads to court. Dylan Byers and Peter Hamby dig into the Washington media reckoning surrounding debate-gate. Then Marion Maneker examines how a decade of collectors entering the art world with an “investment mindset” seems to have choked off the market—and what happens if everyone decides to head for the exits all
at once. Programming note : On July 10th in D.C., Peter will moderate an exclusive, data-driven panel discussion in partnership with Echelon Insights, revealing the latest voter trends ahead of the November election with a special focus on the outsize impact of women voters of the age of 50. Puck subscribers can click here to attend . Otherwise, click here to subscribe to Puck and email Fritz@puck.news for registration information. The NFL’s $15B Sunday Ticket Problem MATTHEW BELLONI Matt is joined by Puck’s John Ourand to break down the multibillion-dollar NFL Sunday Ticket lawsuit. John explains how this bill could actually balloon to nearly $15 billion under antitrust law, how this will impact Sunday Ticket’s new distributor, YouTube, and whether this could impact the greater sports media rights landscape. Why Won’t Hollywood Speak Up for TikTok? ERIQ GARDNER Despite its free speech history, Hollywood isn’t joining the First Amendment challenges to the U.S. government’s TikTok ban. A deep dive into why studio heads, producers, and writers might be making the wrong call. The Biden Media Blame Game PETER HAMBY & DYLAN BYERS Dylan Byers joins Peter to dig into into the Washington media reaction to debate-gate—the self-righteousness, anger, frustration, and general sense that the age issue, once deemed too sensitive, is all that matters. The Art Market Bank Run Theory MARION MANEKER Art advisor Jacob King offers a thesis that absolutely no one wants to hear: After a decade of collectors entering the market with an “investment mindset,” the inevitable high prices that have resulted seem to have choked off the market. So what happens if everyone decides to head for the exits all at once? Biden Plunges in Swing States in Leaked Post-Debate Poll PETER HAMBY The president is losing critical support in key battlegrounds, according to data from a premier Democratic firm, and putting previously noncompetitive states in play. Also, for the first time, he’s polling behind Kamala Harris. Need help? Review our FAQs
                                    page or contact
                                    us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 227 W 17th St New York, NY 10011.