# Document: Stratechery Plus + Asianometry_Mon,_20_Jan_2025_16-38-40_+0000_1948494b63908cbf_20250819_090726.eml

Stratechery Plus adds Asianometry

View in browser Stratechery Plus + Asianometry Monday, January 20, 2025 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Back in 2022 , I rebranded a Stratechery subscription as Stratechery Plus, a bundle of content that would enhance the value of your subscription; today the bundle includes: The Stratechery Update The Stratechery Interview series The Sharp Tech with Ben Thompson podcast, hosted by Andrew Sharp The Sharp China with Bill Bishop podcast, hosted by Andrew Sharp The Dithering podcast, with John Gruber and myself The Greatest of All Talk podcast, with Ben Golliver and Andrew Sharp Today I am excited to announce a new addition: the Asianometry newsletter and podcast, by Jon Yu. Asianometry is one of the best tech YouTube channels in existence , with over 768,000 subscribers. Jon produces in-depth videos explaining every aspect of technology, with a particular expertise in semiconductors. To give you an idea of Jon's depth, he has made 31 videos about TSMC alone . His semiconductor course includes 30 videos covering everything from designing chips to how ASML builds EUV machines to Moore's Law . His video on the end of Dennard's Law is a particular standout: Jon is about more than semiconductors though: he's made videos about other tech topics like The Tragedy of Compaq , and non-tech topics like Japanese Whisky and Taiwan convenience stores . In short, Jon is an intensely curious person who does his research, and we are blessed that he puts in the work to share what he learns. I am blessed most of all, however. Over the last year Jon has been making Stratechery Articles into video essays and cutting clips for Sharp Tech ; he did a great job with one of my favorite articles of 2024: And now, starting today, Stratechery Plus subscribers can get exclusive access to Asianometry's content in newsletter and podcast form. The Asianometry YouTube Channel will remain free and Jon's primary focus, but from now on all of his content will be simultaneously released as a transcript and podcast. Stratechery Plus subscribers can head over to the new Asianometry Passport site to subscribe to his emails, or to add the podcast feed to your favorite podcast player. And, of course, subscribe to Jon's YouTube channel , along with Stratechery Plus . Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China Greatest Of All Talk | Asianometry Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratechery@khamel.com Plan type: Free You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. Click here to unsubscribe. © 2025 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703