# Document: An Interview with The Air Current's Jon Ostrower about Southwest's Meltdown and Independent Publishing (Stratechery Interview 1-19-2023)_Thu,_19_Jan_2023_09-50-39_+0000_185c9702d8b73da0_20250819_090726.eml

An interview with The Air Current's Jon Ostrower about Southwest's meltdown, being an independent publisher, why there isn't supersonic passenger flights, and building a hardware product.

View in browser An Interview with The Air Current's Jon Ostrower about Southwest's Meltdown and Independent Publishing Thursday, January 19, 2023 Listen to this Update in your podcast player Good morning, Jon Ostrower is the founder and editor-in-chief of The Air Current , an independent publication focused on the air industry. Ostrower started covering the air industry as an independent blogger, before moving to Flight Global, the Wall Street Journal, and CNN; he started The Air Current in 2018. As a long time aviation geek, I was familiar with Ostrower’s work, and was pleased to connect with him and give him counsel as he started his own publication; The Air Current has been a smashing success, and another proof point of the value and opportunity for independent publications. Meanwhile, over Christmas break there was a big aviation story with a significant tech angle: Southwest’s entire operation ground to a halt as its software couldn’t keep up with a wave of cancellations caused by winter weather. I had the chance to talk to Ostrower about that story, about his experience as an independent publisher, and about his surprising decision to launch a hardware product. To listen to this interview as a podcast, click the link at the top of this email to add Stratechery to your podcast player. On to the interview: An Interview with The Air Current’s Jon Ostrower about Southwest’s Meltdown and Independent Publishing This interview is lightly edited for clarity. Topics: Slow News | The Air Current’s Business Model | The Southwest Airlines Meltdown | Complexity and Culture | Scarcity and Autonomy | Culture Challenges | Boom and Supersonic Flight | The Yawman Arrow Slow News Jon Ostrower , founder of The Air Current , welcome to Stratechery. JO: Ben, thanks for having me. So at first glance, having an airline industry expert might seem like an odd fit for Stratechery. There has, though, been a major tech angle to some recent airline news, which I definitely want to get to. Another major focus for me personally, though, is my business model and the idea that a single individual can build a business on the Internet, focusing on a specific niche. And there was always, when I started, there was a lot of skepticism about me doing it, but even once I did it, it was like, “Oh, well that’s fine for Ben”, and a dismissal of the concept broadly. However, there was always another person that I had in mind where I thought to myself, “Hey, this person can sort of make it work.” And that was you. You have The Air Current, the guy over here, Jon Ostrower, who is succeeding with the exact same model, but he’s covering the airline industry. So tell me about your background, and how did you get into covering airlines generally? And how you came to start The Air Current? JO: Yeah, absolutely. So the journey to The Air Current has been a long one. It’s funny, I went back and looked, and the first instance of the phrase “The Air Current” in my email actually went back to 2013. So this has been something that I’d been kicking around for a very long time. We didn’t actually get rolling for another five years. It’s funny, I actually had to rephrase my question on the fly, because we were talking well before you launched. I remember talking to you in 2015 or some time around that, and I thought you had started then. I didn’t realize it actually took a couple years to get off the ground. JO: Yeah, it did. It’s funny you kind of walk around and you kind of begin to imagine what the art of the possible is. And at the time, when this popped into mind, I was actually still a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. Yep. That’s when I first started following you. JO: Yep, covering Boeing and Global Aerospace and safety operations. It was an incredible experience being at the paper. It’s an amazing institution and a great place to learn how to do journalism with the world’s best journalists. And so it was really an amazing education, having come from a background at the trades and as effectively a blogger. So it was really kind of my journalism bootcamp in that way. But going through seeing it from different perspectives, whether it was the social media side of it, in terms of blogs, and then mainstream media, I was thinking about how media was evolving. What I realized was that there was a growing opportunity for the type of in-depth coverage that, what I’ve come to appreciate, is what I have called slow news. There’s so much fast news, everyone’s kind of, “Okay, I’m going to throw it to you in tiny digestible bullet points,” or, “I’m going to send it to you in 280 characters,” or, “I’m going to give it to you in 60 seconds,” or, “Bite size, bite size, bite size.” What we realized was that, “Well, I think there’s actually a demand in the other direction.” Where if you take a topic and you spend a lot of time explaining that topic, and you are respectful of people’s time and their attention, that that is something valuable. And you don’t have to do it five or six times a day. You may not even have to do it once a day, but if you consistently deliver it two to three times a week, and it’s something that they’re not going to see anywhere else, with a level of depth and thoughtfulness that sometimes unfortunately gets lost in the mainstream, you can really deliver something of value. And we have built, in the last five years, The Air Current to be exactly that. And so we have set out to prove that slow news works. We are a quiet place. We have no ads, very deliberately. And we built a really solid base of both individual subscribers and corporate subscribers that allow us to operate with the patience and flexibility and intellectual rigor that this industry deserves, and really needs to make its decisions. I do recall you being a blogger, now that I think about it. Where did you get your start? What was the site originally? JO: So this is my bitten by a radioactive spider story. So I actually started off in Boston, in a very different industry: I was actually working in politics at the time. I was 22 years old, and I was working for the governor of Massachusetts at the time, and I was actually his scheduler, writing his briefing book every day. And in my spare time, I actually started a blog. I couldn’t write about politics, but I wanted to write. So I wrote about airplanes, which was the other thing I loved. And in 2007, it happened to coincide with Boeing beginning assembly of the first Dreamliner, 787. A disaster, which we can maybe touch on a little bit. JO: And we could do a whole other podcast on just that. And so to make a very, very long story short, I stumbled my way in to covering that story in a way that no one else was at the time. That’s right. That’s when I encountered you, because I was following that pretty closely. That makes sense. Man, I’m getting old. This is just the, “Oh yeah, I remember that thing that happened when I was young.” Sorry, continue. JO: And so I ended up sort of finding myself being contacted by folks who were involved in the program from all over the world, from South Carolina and Seattle and Japan and Italy and Wichita, Kansas to explain what was going on. And all of a sudden I find myself, “Wait a second, I think of doing journalism here.” Where you’re taking all the input and you’re filtering it through the different lenses, and you are collating it together to explain what’s going on. And we were breaking stories ahead of The Wall Street Journal in those days. It was really amazing to kind of immerse myself in that really briefly. But what ended up happening was I got connected with Flight International Magazine — they go by Flight Global now — they’re a UK-based aviation publication. They’re over a 100 years old. And they said, “Hey, do you want to come on and be our first blogger?” Just keep in mind, we think about bloggers in 2023 as like, “Oh, yeah, bloggers. Okay, that’s kind of old school.” In those days, there was the huge debate about are bloggers journalists? How do we classify them? How do we talk to them? Or do they follow the same rules? What’s going on here? And so the aerospace industry, which is a very old, stodgy sort of buttoned-up industry, was really kind of brought kicking and screaming into the 21st century media environment. And this was the first instance where Boeing, in particular, had to face this reality that the media landscape was changing, and they had to figure out how to work with different types of media. So that ends up becoming my life. I joined Flight and I spent four and a half years bouncing around the world, effectively getting what felt like a crash course in global business. And I was unmarried, I was single, and I was bouncing around the world. I did like 150 plus thousand miles a year for five years straight. Sounds awesome. JO: It was amazing. It was amazing. 2012 showed up and The Wall Street Journal called and said, “Hey, do you want to come cover Boeing for the paper?” And I leapt the opportunity. But it was such a different media environment, very, very, very different, 180 degrees from the type of environment that I was in. Just that you had to be much slower moving or more careful? There was more sort of pushback from a corporate level? What was different between being a “blogger” versus being a establishment journalist? JO: All the above. So I went from an environment where I could leverage the iterative nature of blogging, where you can update something over and over and over, and you could add new pieces, you can have a rolling discussion, and by the way, being wrong when you’re a blogger is the best thing ever, because someone’s going to correct. Being wrong when you’re a reporter for The Wall Street Journal, you’re going to have a really bad day. It’s a very, very different environment, where you’re sort of adjusting to information what the deadlines are, what the pace is, it’s 180 degrees different. Both have their benefits, and what it teaches you is incredible discipline to establish not what is and what isn’t factual, that’s not the right way to look at it, but what you can and cannot say on the record. And the record, as a paper of record that The Wall Street Journal is and the institution that it is, requires a burden of proof and demonstrable evidence that you can literally put your finger on. Which is different from being in the social media world, where you can begin to pull together threads and say, “Hey, here are all the pieces. We’re not totally sure what it means.” Right, my speculation, it might be this, it might be that. There’s something here that’s not quite right. I mean, that’s really interesting. Just to go back to what you said at the beginning about the sort of slow news nature, it’s funny, because I feel the same way. And it’s ironic that I’m now considered this super high volume output sort of writer, because I do multiple pieces a week. But we both came up in the hardcore blogging era, which to your point would be 10 to 15 pieces a day, right? JO: Oh, yeah. People were just sort of churning stuff out. And it’s interesting because I think part of that, at least from my perspective, number one, the business model is a big part of it, for sure. You’re asking someone to pay, and when you’re asking someone to pay, it has to be a consistent quality level, and that is more important than quantity. Whereas if it’s advertising based, just more volume is actually a good thing. But also, I don’t know, it’s interesting how that has shifted where now blogging and The Air Current, it’s almost like, I mean, is it fair to say that when you were a blogger, you could be very early, very speculative, then you’re at The Wall Street Journal and you have this deadline sort of mindset, but also you have to get it right? And now at The Air Current, are you even slower now? Have you basically been slowing down as you got older? And now it’s like, “Wait, let me pull in all these pieces”? Or do you still have that blogger, iterative, speculative aspect in what you do now? JO: I think that’s the great thing about Twitter, because I think that has sort of taken on my sort of iterative format for how I’m seeing things. But yes, the best part of The Air Current is the ability to slow down. And look, we have had many instances where we have not put out a story on the day of a big news event happening, or even the day after, or even the day after, sometimes, two or three days after, where we show up after the dust is settled and say, “Okay, what do you really need to know?” And that has just delivered tremendous, tremendous results for us. Because it’s funny, in a media environment where everyone is fighting to be first, whether it’s for SEO or it’s for just the pressure of the next story coming down the pike behind you that you’re going to get run over by if you don’t get this one out first, that what you have is when they all go at the same time and everyone’s trying to figure out what link to click. You just kind of let them do their stories. And they’re good stories. I have no knock on them. But you let that initial wave pass, and then you kind of walk up and say, “Hey, now that we’ve seen kind of the initial wave, here’s the big picture.” And it has constantly and consistently yielded phenomenal results in terms of the feedback we get from our readers, the commercial success of The Air Current, the quality, I think, when we slow down. And it’s funny, I was just saying to someone the other day that, “At this point, I know exactly what knobs to turn to tank a media business.” I know how to break one. Because there’s something very consistent about the way the mainstream media is operating, or sorry, I should say mainstream or modern media is operating that fundamentally is delivering diminishing returns. There are a few points that resonate there. Almost every time I rush to get something out, I regret it. It’s never as good as it should be. Sometimes there’s missing context. And it’s funny, because I mainly write on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Now, I do these interviews on Thursday. And sometimes that’s very frustrating, because, well, some news will break on Wednesday or will break on Thursday. And there’s been a couple times where I’ve wondered if I should put out a special edition or something along those lines? And the reason I never do is because I’ve just learned over time, there’s been a couple times in my career, where I’ve rushed something out and it was missing context, it was missing information, and more news came out, relatively quickly, but just not immediately that sort of added color to it. And there’ve been other times where I did wait, I knew what I wanted to say, and it still resonated. And to your point, it may have resonated even more strongly, precisely because it was sort of coming in after the fact, once the dust had settled and putting things sort of in order. I mean, there’s been once or twice where I’ve been like, oh, I guess I did feel late, but I think the broader point, you’ve tapped into something that I’ve sort of felt intrinsically, but I’ve never fully articulated, and I think it’s a great insight. JO: Well, it’s funny, because I’m amazed that you’re able to deliver four pieces a week. And that is something that I have never been able to get to and have that level of discipline. And frankly, I think I probably saved an enormous amount of sanity by not setting a publishing schedule. And that lets me have that sort of flexibility of saying, “Okay, well, if it needs another day, okay, give it another day.” It’s a much saner way to live. I mean, you say discipline, I think it’s the opposite. I force myself to have discipline by having a publishing schedule! The Air Current’s Business Model I think your pricing model is very interesting. So personal quarterly subscriptions are $99/quarter or $299/year, and you have individual business subscriptions that are $795/year. How’d you arrive at those price points? I mean, just from the outside it makes sense. You’re super niche and very focused, which the more niche you are, the more you should sort of maximize your revenue per subscriber. Did you have that mindset from the beginning? Or did you work up to those price points? What was your pricing strategy? JO: Well, I mean, it’s funny, five years in, I’d love to say it was a very deliberate, very methodical strategy to reach this point, that we knew exactly what markers we were going to have and when we were going to roll it out. No, I fell on my face six or seven times. I have the scars from this Ben. We should team up and teach a course in how to launch a niche media publication. Right, it’s so much easier to look backwards, say, “Oh yeah, this was my thinking and how to do it.” I’ve talked about this. I recently did an interview on The Acquired Podcast where I talked about it’s funny that I’m thought of as one of the lead people for the whole newsletter sort of movement. And the newsletter thing, I totally backed into it out of desperation when my initial strategy to have this complex website fell on its face. And it’s funny that that’s something that I’m known for now. So yeah, there are a lot of mistakes you make along the way for sure. JO: So it was amazing to go through this, because when I first started, I had a very large Twitter following. I still have a large Twitter following, thankfully. They haven’t abandoned me. But what I knew coming in was that I needed to use that as the primary channel for distribution. And so introducing myself again in a different context, whereas before I was at CNN, now I was now on my own, and “Hey, I am doing a product.” And there were two different markets that I needed to hit. There was the passionate enthusiasts who loved this stuff and wants to want to follow the industry, and what goes on at the airlines? What goes on at Boeing and Airbus? What goes on in new technology? And then there was the industry side of it, and those who do this professionally every single day. And then asking a premium price of the professionals, but also understanding that there was a market that absolutely wanted to continue to read what I had been putting out. Because prior to that CNN coverage is free, and The Wall Street Journal had open paywall items, periodically. Yes, predominantly behind a paywall, but it was more accessible. So I needed to find a way to balance starting from zero on cash flow and actually getting things in the door. I think what I was able to do in retrospect was do this organically, and build that base to a point where, okay, what is the right price point when it’s just me? And it was just me in 2018. And then in early 2020, my colleague Courtney Miller, left industry, came over and became an amazing analyst, and decided to put his brain on paper for everyone to read and join the team. And then in early ’22, Elan Head, who is an extraordinary journalist and helicopter pilot, and just all around amazing human being, joined us at the beginning of ’22. And it’s just been this sort of step by step, little by little pushing forward on growth. And I’ve been in organizations that have grown too quickly, and they’ve come to regret it dearly, where people get laid off and a huge amount of value’s been destroyed, and a lot of money and talent goes out the door. So to see and experience that firsthand, talk about those knobs, what it takes to tank a media business, one of them is impatience. You have to grow proportionally and organically with your audience. You cannot force it. Yes, you can make big investments at time and bring on people, but I think one of the pieces of advice that you actually gave me, that really resonated way back when, was that the cost to reach one person, fundamentally, in this business is the same as it is to reach 10,000 people. But the two people delivering the same publication, does not inherently yield you 2x the revenue for the market. And so you have to think about how you allow yourself the patience to grow organically, and allowing you to know when is the right time to expand and not duplicate what you’re doing, but really grow the breadth of the publication. And it allows you, in turn, to go from where we started at, we started at, I think, 17.99 per month, which was a learning experience about monthly subscriptions versus quarterlies, to $99 a quarter over time, which took us, I think three and a half, four years to get there. And then I think it started at $169, $179 a year to now $299. And it’s because we feel like we’ve demonstrated the value. Proof of performance is something that we talk about all the time. I mean, if you’re going to show up on the scene and say, “Hey, we do something valuable”, you have to demonstrate that you are delivering the value. And it sounds obvious, right? It’s really interesting, because I think this question of hiring more writers or analysts, I mean, it’s obviously something I’ve thought a ton about. I mean, it was just me for a very, very long time. I only took on my first new content producer last year, and that was mostly for podcasts. I still do all the writing. Because, yeah, it’s the question, how do you actually increase the revenue in a way that’s commensurate with your cost increase? JO: Yeah, exactly. So what I’m hearing from you is you actually did that quite explicitly. It’s like, “Okay, we now have this additional content and additional point of view and additional analysis, and you’re going to pay for it. I’ve proven my value to date and you’re going to trust me that it’s going to be worth it.” So you just made it very explicit. “Look, we have more content now with different angles and we’re going to increase our price accordingly.” Is that a fair summary of how you thought about it? JO: It is. And, actually, it’s really interesting, one unaddressed thread of this was that when I first started, and this is something that I’ve taken flack from my early subscribers about, and people have griped about it over the years, and folks have come to really accept the necessity of it, copy and paste was an existential threat. Yeah. You’ve always been real hardcore about piracy. You have JavaScript on your page that makes it hard to copy and paste, et cetera, et cetera. JO: Can’t print it, yep. Yep. JO: But what we actually found was that this is great, and I think this is a model that other people should replicate, nothing shy about this, we generated every single page we have we actually build in our workflow a glossy magazine style that we actually make available as a PDF. Yeah, right, JO: And what we found is that in corporate environments, no one wants to send a link through to the C-suite where there’s a paywall. That’s fascinating. JO: And so the user behavior, we’ve gotten that feedback, and so we have that at their fingertips where you can, that’s just a good way to move information around. That’s really interesting. I mean, how do you enforce the personal versus business distinction? I mean, you’re a small organization. I don’t think you have an audit team. Or is just big companies are generally pretty good about compliance and you count on that? JO: Look, a lot of this is the honor system. We’ve had folks that have egregiously tried to abuse it, and we call them on that, but generally people are pretty good about it. I mean, there are folks at various financial institutions… They’re the worst. I will say it right out, the biggest piraters of Stratechery are the banks, without question. It’s ridiculous. It’s always been the case. JO: Yeah. I mean, that’s it. They fight the idea of a business subscription and it’s like, well, what are you using it for? No. I’m just reading it for fun in my 19 working hour days. JO: Exactly. Does Air Current mostly grow then via word of mouth and people sharing stuff and sharing those PDFs and people feel like they need to stay connected? JO: Yeah. Look, I don’t have a problem with people sharing. I think that’s really important. As long as you pay for the rights to do it, that’s the thing. The Southwest Airlines Meltdown Anyhow, I could talk about the nuts and bolts of subscription businesses for literally hours, but the pressing news, the reason to have you on now as opposed to any time when we could talk about that stuff, is that over the holidays there was just an epic meltdown at Southwest Airlines. And yes, there is a tech angle, as we know, because I read your great writeup , which I thought was an excellent example of how coming in late can give you an advantage in tying all these pieces together. But let’s assume zero knowledge amongst our audience and walk me through from the top, how does it happen that a major airline in 2022 basically can’t fly for a week? JO: So, again, it was a fantastic example of the slow news side of things. I was on vacation when it happened, so it forced me to wait. I know that panicky feeling of, “I should probably write about this.” But I thought it was worth the wait. JO: So, in the last 10 days of December, there was a massive ice storm that hit the entire Western U.S. and spread into the upper Midwest, and totally derailed Southwest Airlines’ operations. It really hit in Denver, it started in Denver, and then it spread to Chicago. And what ends up happening is, when you start to have cancellations, the airline systems have to adjust for what’s called irregular operations. So air airplanes aren’t where they’re supposed to be. Crews aren’t where they’re supposed to be. You’re trying to figure out where the operation is, what do you cancel, how do you do that? And there’s a whole set of different software tools that Southwest Airlines uses to do irregular operations. And they start with this tool called the Baker. That’s the one that generates various solutions for aircraft and passenger routings. Yeah, I wasn’t aware of it. So the other software in your article, Sky Solver is from GE. That’s an industry-wide one. Is the Baker exclusive to Southwest, or is that also an industry wide software application? JO: That’s exclusive to Southwest. The Baker is actually named after a late leader of their dispatch organization. And so they take that and they throw the output into this tool called Sky Solver. It is a GE tool. GE was on edge a lot last week with all of this because they felt like, number one, it was a brand they don’t use anymore, but also they felt like they were being unfairly maligned because things were getting out of sync with bad data going into Sky Solver. Right. Baker was overwhelmed. So you basically had two batch-oriented software applications, where Baker is running through and then outputting this stuff that goes into Sky Solver, which then takes a while to go through it. And because it’s these batch operations, while it’s solving these problems, more stuff’s going wrong. So whatever comes out is already out of date. JO: Exactly. It gives you solutions where a crew member who was trying to deadhead — fly in the cabin of an airplane, not at the controls, but just as a passenger trying to fly across the network to get to their next flight — would have these crazy circular solution flight plans where they would send them all over the place. And all of this is based on a very complex series of both airline, union, and federal work rules. So you have a rule set that you have to abide by within all this. And by the way, you have pilot work rules and you have flight attendant work rules and they’re different. And so to create the solutions that need to get crews where they are, eventually, the whole network just got out of sync. And then, when you throw more cancellations into it, you get the cascading failure of not knowing where your crews are combined with the additional cancellations because of weather, the whole thing falls apart. Right. You get in this bad feedback loop where it just starts building on itself, and it’s basically a runaway, uncontrolled nuclear reaction or something like. JO: Exactly. You just have to shut the whole thing down and restart. JO: Yeah. And one of the fascinating things about this, which I think has not been well understood by the industry, is that Southwest, in its simplicity, has always leaned on the 737. The Boeing 737 is their airplane, and to manage the complexity of a modern airline system, they said, “Okay, every pilot can fly every airplane.” And you would say, “Okay, well that must make crew assignments a lot easier because you can just think about it in a very linear way.” And the answer, actually, ironically enough, when you throw this incredibly disrupted network into a Sky Solver or into Baker, all the different permutations and rules and algorithms that need to spit out an answer, what you have is the world’s largest, most complex single airplane fleet in the system. You’re effectively asking so much of the technology to be able to solve this. I mean, it is the largest single airplane fleet in the world. It’s about 740 airplanes. I want to double down on this because this was by far the most interesting thing in your article. I’m going to read the relevant paragraph: Southwest has always leaned on a single fleet of 737s as a hedge against the complexity that comes with its ascent to the nation’s largest domestic airline. Other airlines operate more aircraft than Southwest in aggregate, but each individual fleet type is its own smaller island on which to assign a specific cadre of pilots. By contrast, the unmatched scale of Southwest’s fleet, roughly 740 Boeing single aisles for 10,300 pilots and 17,000 flight attendants, is 60% larger than the next largest U.S. fleet, American Airlines Airbus A320 family. This blew my mind, because my takeaway, and I think I’m just saying what you said, is that while Southwest gets those obvious efficiencies you mentioned from having a single type of aircraft, it actually means their software challenges in terms of crew scheduling are just massively larger. Given that you are increasing the number of variables, the complexity increases exponentially, not linearly, which means that Southwest, even if they were the most cutting edge in terms of software, which they’re I think generally not thought to be, was always the most susceptible to a disaster like this just because of the complexity that comes from that single fleet. I think I just said what you said, but I agree with you. This was, I use this phrase a lot, but the mind-exploding emoji of that article. JO: Yeah. I mean, you take that and then you combine it with the type of network that they have. That’s right, which makes it even more complex. JO: Right. You think about United, American, Delta, they have hubs. Southwest has large centers of operations. Denver’s their largest operation right now followed by Midway in Chicago. But the way that they move aircraft across the network, because they have a single pilot core, because they have a single aircraft type, it flows nodally rather than out and back in a traditional hub structure. Right. If United or American or Delta got this problem, they could just pull all the crews and aircrafts to their hubs and then reset from there. But Southwest doesn’t really have that option. Everything’s distributed everywhere. JO: We probably need to do a class on network theory also because, it’s funny, the way information works and the way airplanes work, it’s actually very similar in terms of moving packets of information that happen to buy tickets or seats. It’s the same idea. But, fundamentally, how you solve for the network in this particular case is it flows so freely across this U.S. network and the domestic airline system. But, at other airlines, you have more segmented operations. And, by the way, that creates a lot of other additional headache in terms of information flow and irregular operations and the disruption of a hub and how you move people and how you connect people. It’s not like one is better than the other. It’s just that on a good day or a bad day, it can really vary. But what you see here is the vulnerability of that type of operation when you lose visibility of your crews. Because, fundamentally, that’s the thing that makes all this work. Complexity and Culture So, I mean, what should Southwest have done? I mean, I’ll give you my take first. JO: Please, I don’t know if I have an answer, by the way, but go for it. I’ll ponder this one. Broadly speaking, it seems to me, if the company wants to pursue a completely unique strategy, one airplane type, a nodal strategy, as you noted, instead of hub-and-spoke, then it seems clear the company should have long ago invested in its own custom software. Basically, it needs to have custom software because it’s doing a custom thing. I can understand GE feeling put out because it’s like, well, yes, you’re using industry standard software, but the industry standard software, your whole point is you’re not doing an industry standard model. And it feels like the mistake here was not in appreciating that. Sure, this simplicity makes sense up to, say, 400, 500 aircraft, but at some point you’re going to get a complexity overhang that basically makes Southwest specifically uniquely susceptible to this sort of disaster. They needed to basically be building their own software, not just Baker, but their own Sky Solver a long time ago. JO: I think you raise a really good point, which is the strategic question about how do you manage the complexity of an organization as it grows? And when you go into a pandemic where you have 700-plus airplanes and then the world shuts down, and then it’s not just like, “Oh, we have a storm. We need to reset. This is going to be miserable. There are tons of people in the system.” The people are gone. It was an existential question for the entire airline industry. When we sit here in 2023 and we complain about the lines at the Delta Sky Club and say, “Oh, well, that’s wild. It’s so frustrating,” three years ago at this time the world was falling apart and we were right on the verge of going out of business. I mean, I had many nights where I laid in bed, I’m like, “Is the Air Current going to have anything to write about?” That’s right. JO: “Is there going to be an industry left?” And they came through. But during that two-year period, there was little investment in a lot of the key infrastructure, at Southwest, at other places that really only in the last probably 12 months have we seen the airline industry come out of that like, “Okay, wait, we’re going to actually have money to spend again.” Remember, that the CARES program as part of the Pandemic Relief packages were designed to keep the staff effectively employed. It didn’t go to airline operations. It didn’t go to airline improvements. It went to maintain payrolls so when the system came back on, they would still be there. And, by the way, they still let go of a ton of people, a ton across the industry. And so we’re still not back at the same level of employment, the same number of airplanes, while we’re cramming in 105%, 110%, 115%, 120% of 2019 traffic in some cities at various days. Scarcity and Autonomy Another really interesting recent analysis of yours was United’s massive Boeing order. I think it was the largest wide-body aircraft order in US history, and the first paragraph of your analysis reads: Looking beyond the headline-grabbing numbers of the largest wide-body aircraft order in US history, United Airlines is positioning itself for a world of increasing scarcity within a global aviation system that is forcing it to rethink how it builds a fleet. Anticipating limitations across runways, gates, airspace, aircraft, pilot availability, and environmental pressures, United is beginning to show us what an airline in the 2030s and 2040s is going to look like. So there’s a lot of things going on here, but it all seems to be this sort of scarcity-driven issue, right? JO: Yes. If you don’t have enough pilots, and you don’t have enough runways, while demand for flying continues to increase, basically the solution United has come up with is, “We’re just going to buy a bunch of bigger jets, and people who live in far-flung places, they’re just going to have to drive to a big airport.” Is that basically the long and short of it? JO: Absent either a widespread acceptance of autonomy, which is, by the way, a major, major discussion point in its own right, or a regional air mobility system that significantly reduces the operating cost of the aircraft, it is going to be that fundamentally, the networks over time are going to coalesce around larger and larger airplanes. Well, what about the autonomy point? Like I said, airplanes are one of my guilty pleasures, so I get a lot of the TikTok/Reels videos of pilots landing, and the ones that are always sort of mind-blowing are the ones where it’s basically fully automated, right? And it’s in fog, and they only need to see the runway if it’s 50 feet or whatever it is. But the airplane is basically landing itself. I mean, and you think about it, it’s a pretty well-defined problem space, right? This isn’t like cars… JO: It’s a lot easier than cars. Yeah, there are no pedestrians and stuff like that. You know where you’re going. It’s highly instrumented. These airplanes can and do fly themselves. What is the hangup there? Well, tell me about that, because my knowledge is enough to be dangerous, but not enough to really know the answer. JO: Airplanes do not fly themselves. I mean, that’s important to know. They are monitored in certain phases of flight. It’s actually really interesting. Southwest is actually one of the least automated airlines. There are tools they don’t use that just add additional cost, where they will fly precision approaches, hand-fly them, using instruments, not using the sort of multi-radio, multi-system, automated landing tools, and so on. A modern airplane is an extraordinary thing. It’s incredibly complex, but fundamentally, it still is under the purview of a human making a decision. And we haven’t gotten to a point where there’s AI or machine learning in this process, in a certified way. There are a lot of people trying to figure out if that can work, and sort of where a pilot is sort of babysitting the, you know, automatic taxi, automatic takeoff, automatic landing, and there are a bunch of companies in Silicon Valley who are trying to do that, with some very well-funded ones in fact. Where that’s probably going to happen first in cargo, and- And maybe the change will be there only needs to be one pilot instead of two? JO: Actually, so in small aircraft, they’re looking at trying to, over the long term, like a little Cessna Caravan, which is a small feeder airplane, going from one to none. Oh, interesting. JO: Yep, that’s on the table, and there’s a whole bunch of companies that are trying to do that right now. The next piece of this is on the big airplane side, and something that FedEx has actually talked about, that they want to do, and Airbus wants to look at this for the A350 freighter, which is their largest twin-engine airplane, and what they want to do is go not from two crew to one, but three to two. Oh, so resting and stuff like that. JO: Exactly, exactly. You can sort of take that out, yeah. JO: Exactly, and there is a very large savings associated with that, so the question is can you do it to the equal equivalent level of safety we have today? And that’s sort of the invaluable question that is trying to be answered. How do you design a flight deck? Do you make pilot seats that can recline all the way? I mean, Dassault, the business jet manufacturer, their new super large business jet is actually going to have a pilot seat that reclines, so they can have that type of rest on the flight deck. Right, without the pilots needing to go up in that weird little cabin on top of the passengers. They’re still in the cockpit, even if he or she is resting. JO: Exactly. Actually, it’s funny. I did a round-the-world trip, but I was flying with a couple of guys who do ferry flights. I took actually a brand newly converted 767 freighter out of Singapore to Miami, and we flew to Honolulu, south of Honolulu, and flew on to Miami. It was just the three of us in this large freighter aircraft, and it gave me just an incredible appreciation for the complexity of how all this works, and what you have to do to monitor the systems, but also the boredom that comes along with that. Right, totally. JO: So it’s kind of like this dual mindset of being ever-vigilant of what’s going on around you, but also making sure your mind is sharp enough to be ready for something to happen, but how do you rest in an environment like that? It was an amazing experience, but gave me an appreciation for two-pilot cockpit. Culture Challenges So I’m kind of interested if there’s a little bit of an analogy here with some of this stuff. You go back to this Southwest thing, right? And I think we talked about how they should have invested more in new software as their complexity increased, but I think the challenge that the airline industry, they were quite early to information technology, because the benefits were so huge, right? Modern airlines couldn’t function without some sort of very large and complex IT systems, but that means, to some extent, the solutions are old, because they were early to it, right? JO: Yes. Yes, precisely. Yeah, yeah. So new ones need to be built, but building up the organizational capacity to build something completely new is a lot different, or new for the first time, is a lot different than rebuilding it, to rebuild the airplane in the air as it sort of were. The first time, it’s super obvious, because the benefits are massive. Whereas the second time, the main benefit you’re getting is avoiding disasters that might happen, which obviously happened in the case of Southwest. And it’s interesting, because I feel like there’s an analogy here to this United question, and the runways, and the pilots, where building the first airport is easy, right? Building the first regional airline is easy. There’s nothing there, so it’s a massive benefit. Expanding, though, or adjusting your regulations or the way you think about things, is much more difficult, because you have a much stronger faction for the status quo. Yeah, sure, maybe there’s a payoff, but it’s far in the future, while the short-term downsides are obvious. It’s really expensive. It might go wrong. You know, “We don’t want construction. We already have an airport. Why does it need to get bigger?” I mean, it kind of feels like the industry as a whole, in lots of areas, is stuck in this stasis. It’s really easy to invent and do new stuff the first time, but it’s really hard to rebuild and do new stuff, and to update things. JO: Yeah. Well, I think what you’re talking about is the maturity of the market, right? When the market matures to such an extent when you are in this position, the dynamics are that it is harder to change. And the one thing Southwest was really, really, really good at, and there’s a whole body of academic research that has looked at how Southwest grew in the first place, which was in a slow and steady manner. It was little by little, little by little, little by little, little by little, and then you kind of wake up one morning. It’s like, “Wait a sec. They’re the largest airline in the US?” Yeah. JO: If you grow slowly you can control the stability of it all, and you didn’t have these wild swings in capacity, in employment. Something that Herb Kelleher built was this incredibly stable, rock-solid organization that leaned on its culture, but also leaned on sort of this ethos, that it was just kind of a slow and steady. It’s funny, I was talking earlier about The Air Current and how I built it. There were lessons that were drawn from that, this idea that you can’t just throw yourself into this environment by building too quickly, and then you fall flat on your face. You have to go with the flow on this one. You cannot rush it, and patience really matters. Southwest was a phenomenally patient airline, that allowed them to just chip away, little by little, little by little, little by little. But the problem is, as you mature, and other airlines are moving at a different pace, and you throw a pandemic in the mix, at what point does the risk aversion of change, of trying to adopt these systems, or evolve these systems, or upgrade these systems, or change these systems actually becomes underinvestment. I wrote an article several years ago talking about The Curse of Culture . Culture is so powerful, and it’s essential to building a great organization. The problem with culture is it’s awesome right up until it’s not, and then it becomes like a strait-jacket, and you can’t make the changes that needed to be made, and in the case of Southwest, yeah, we can sit here and backseat drive, and say, “Look, you needed to build your own custom software solution, because you have a problem set that’s completely different than anyone else,” but it’s like, how on Earth are you going to convince a Southwest, which to your point, has succeeded by not doing that, to do it? I think about tech, you need a company to just have a disaster to get change. You need Microsoft to completely fail at mobile, and to completely fall behind to reset itself. You need Apple to almost go out of business to sort of reset itself. Maybe Southwest needed this to happen. They needed just this disaster, losing almost a billion dollars, total embarrassment. It’s like, “Wait, I thought Southwest were the reliable ones, how does this happen?”, and maybe this was a good thing in the long run of things, because now they have all the motivation in the world to fix this problem. JO: Well, as you just pointed out, this is sort of what happens in the life of large institutions, corporate institutions, and it literally becomes the question of a fork in the road in either direction. Courtney made this great point to me last week, their culture actually worked so well to their advantage because it either covered or supported the idea that they didn’t need IT to solve the problem, because information, and collaboration, and collegiality was so universal that you could solve problems without going to the system. But again, you end up in a situation where the scale and complexity of the operation just overruns itself when there’s all this level of disruption that we saw the storm, and the systems are not there. The processes are not there to find the crews, to also learn from an earlier meltdown just a little over a year before, to be able maintain the resiliency of the business. But certainly, I think it has been a phenomenal, phenomenal learning experience for them, to think about not just software, but culture, and- Yeah. Well, it’s not a learning experience: it’s a massive kick in the pants, because to your point they had this problem. They had a similar meltdown on a smaller scale a year before, but it wasn’t large enough to motivate a fix for it. Boom and Supersonic Flight There’s a lot of attention in Silicon Valley on Boom, a startup trying to build supersonic aircraft. It seems like the news is kind of pessimistic around that: you reported they can’t get one of the big engine suppliers to support them, so they’re trying to work with smaller suppliers. One, what’s going on there, and two, why is no one else trying to do supersonic flight? Is it just the sense that no one’s going to pay for it? I mean, you see this United purchase. They’re buying a bunch of relatively slow aircraft, right? As someone in Taiwan, believe me, I’m very invested in and interested in faster flights. Give me an overview of like why are we stuck with 600 miles per hour or whatever it is? JO: I think you have to look at this from, again, a strategic perspective. Boom has come along, and I think supersonic fascinates people, because they want to go fast. They love the idea of zipping over time zones, and arriving before you left, and all the glamour and sex appeal that comes along with that, and it is a sexy, sexy market. The problem is the economics are really tough. Going fast requires a lot of fuel, requires heavy maintenance on engines. It requires a lot of CO2, depending on what you’re putting in the tank. Where Boom is right now, they’ve gotten to a point that they’ve got a manufacturing plant that they’re planning for North Carolina. They now have an engine supplier. They don’t have it with a traditional provider like Pratt, Rolls Royce and GE. But what they do have is working with a smaller organization called Florida Turbine Technologies, which does small engines for things like cruise missiles and attritable aircraft. And those are very small, low thrust engines. So, this is a big leap for them to go in this direction and Boom is actually taking on a lot of their responsibility of designing this engine as well. And that comes with the price tag that goes up by billions as a result of it, for this whole endeavor on top of the very large multi-billion dollar price tag to just build the aircraft. I think the one thing that is really important here to remember is that supersonic is inherently 180 degrees opposed to all of the other strategic forces within the airline industry. We talked about scarcity in terms of resources, in terms of fuel, in terms of pilots. Right. The whole thing of United buying a bunch of wide bodies is they need to maximize the number of people they carry in one plane. Well, supersonic jets are small and yeah, so that makes total sense. It’s the exact opposite. JO: So, the airline industry since the late ’50s, we got to the 707s and the DC8s, the first jetliners and went from higher, faster, farther to faster, better, cheaper. And that has been the trend. And so as long as the dynamics are that airlines are competing on cost — I mean, they would love to raise their prices and they have been able to because of the, again, scarcity of capacity and the demand has grown and outstripped the capacity of the system to accommodate it, so the prices come up and they love it. They’re back at pre pandemic revenues. It’s been great. A problem is that comes with a whole other host of high costs and problems when your airline tips over. Against that, you’ve got this reality where, there’s a really illuminating thing that happened in the early 2000s, pre-9/11. Boeing actually looked at a supersonic, or just barely supersonic airplane. It was actually mach 0.98. So, 98% of the speed of sound. Yeah, the Sonic Cruiser? JO: Yep. Exactly. One of the big benefits of that, when we talk about crew scarcity, you actually could fly at a certain distance and actually require one less crew member because you were going fast enough to get in under the work rules. You’d actually get there in a time where you wouldn’t need the extra crew member. So, there was a savings there, but it would end up burning about the same amount of fuel as an airplane built in 1985. The airlines said, “No, no, no, we don’t want that. We want to slow down, we need you to focus on the Dreamliner.” But one thing that they never realized was that Concord, when it flew from the ’70s to the early 2000s, what happened was you never had two different airlines flying on the same route. We never really knew how low the price could get, because there was no competition. JO: Exactly. Yeah, exactly. So, if you want to justify the business case, what ends up happening is you have to have airlines on the same route. If you put two Sonic Cruisers on the same route, what ends up happening is they end up competing against each other to get the premium passenger paying for speed. And then, “Oh, by the way, all the wide body aircraft, slow pokey wide bodies, are going even lower to keep those aircraft running.” And so what Boeing found was that you take a city pair like New York to London and you actually take money out of it by introducing these airplanes, it’s actually a net loser. Interesting. So, it’s a great consumer benefit, but it just doesn’t work for the airlines. That makes sense. JO: That’s the dynamic that Boom fundamentally faces. So Boom doesn’t just need to make the aircraft, and they don’t just need to make the engine. It sounds like they need to make an airline too. It has to be almost fully integrated from the ground up to support this. JO: Yeah, I mean, it’s like Aeroflot, right? They had the TU144s for flying supersonic mail for the Soviet government from one end of the Soviet Union to the other. It works in that way, but that’s not the world we live in when it comes to developing an airline. The Yawman Arrow This is the most interesting thing in the interview. I mean, to take this full circle, there’s one final piece to cover that to my mind is just mind blowing as far as being sort of an individual creator. And yes, you have a team now, but still the beautiful thing about writing an online publication is there are no marginal costs. You could put it up there and then you could reproduce it end endlessly, et cetera. However, you, like an insane person, are getting into hardware. Tell me about the Yawman Arrow, which was just announced yesterday, or two days ago, as you read this interview. What is the Yawman Arrow and how in the world did you end up working on this? JO: Okay, so I realized I had too much spare time. There were the hours between 11:00 PM and 5:00 AM — sleep is for losers. Exactly. Exactly. JO: A friend of mine, Thomas Nealt, who was a brilliant professor at USC, instructor at USC, he does AI and machine learning and is just a mad genius. And he texted me, this is mid-’21 and I’m instructor at USC Aviation Safety and Security program as well. And he said, “Hey, I’m working on this thing for Flight Sim.” I said, “Hold on, say no more. Whatever comes next, I want in and I want to help you.” Flight simulators, I’ve always wanted to get into them. But the problem is it’s not really a simulator unless you have the controls. Last summer, I actually bought a whole bunch. I bought the Honeycomb Yolk and the throttle quadrant and I have rudder pedals and I take this all back to Taiwan. I set it up. It’s an incredible experience. You’re controlling an airplane, but I have no desk because I have this massive equipment all over my desk. So, now all that is in a box and I have a gaming computer that can play the flight simulator that I never use because I can’t be bothered to get the controls out. JO: I’ve been simming since I was 11 years old and I have all the same stuff you have. I have all the hardware, loved it. I’ve loved every second since then. It no doubt informed my career path. It has been just, it’s like leaving your job and going home to practice your job. I’m not a pilot obviously, but it’s that same sort of how do you extend your passion even more. What we did, and what Thomas figured out, was that you could take all of the flight controls of an aircraft that you find in the rudder pedals, in the yoke, in the joystick, in a throttle quadrant, and he put it in a handheld. And we have spent the last 18 months refining it and getting it to work in a way that we are phenomenally excited about. It’s called the Yawman Arrow . It’s like playing an Xbox controller on steroids with stuff sticking out of it. JO: And it’s about the same size also, believe it or not. Dimensionally, it’s the same. We’ve crammed a lot of power. We have a trim wheel, we put a mechanically linked trigger system for rudder pedals that go up and down. You get the tactile feedback of them moving together. We’ve got 21 different buttons on seven axis to work on desktop, on laptops. And it is just a really, really great experience. It’s funny, it’s actually become my only device. Yes, I’m biased because I’ve been testing this, but it really is the way that I want to fly now. This is incredible. You showed it to me and the first thing I saw was a trim wheel. My God, if you ever tried to use an Xbox controller to flight sim, that’s the part that just killed me. It’s like, I’ve tried to use a keyboard or press buttons and it just doesn’t work. The idea that you can have your regular computer and you can just grab this controller, and of course it’s not the same thing, but it’s so much better than anything else and have it accessible. You posted a picture on Twitter of you playing a flight simulator on an airplane, on a laptop with full controls. I mean, it’s amazing. It’s super cool. At the same time, you’re making hardware! Tell me about the other parts of this. You come up with this great idea, but how are you getting it manufactured? How does the channel work? It just seems such a different problem space than building a newsletter. JO: It is. You know what’s funny? There are similarities, and I’ll dig into those. One of the things that we really strove for was — let me tell you how much fun designing a consumer electronics anything in the middle of a pandemic is, right? I mean, supply chain, it was just a huge question where we knew that was the thing we were going to have to optimize for. Yes, we knew what the product was. Yes, we knew what it was needed to do and all that, but we had to make sure that if you can’t deliver something to market, it doesn’t matter if you can’t build it, you can’t get the components. So, one of my favorite parts here is that we’re actually entirely made in the US. We sort of looked at the world and said, “Okay, there are a lot of really good reasons to be manufacturing this controller right outside of Lexington, Kentucky.” And we have a great partner there and we call them, they’re our mini Foxconn. They do it all for us, and so we work incredibly closely with them. Number one, there’s no time zone barrier, which is great. We can go back and forth there. We’re actually based in Indiana. I’m in Seattle, one in Dallas, one in Indiana. And so we are able to leverage the North American time zones to our advantage here. And what we realized was, I mean, is it more expensive to manufacture in the US? Yes, of course it is. But there’s a gigantic however attached to that. If you can’t get your product to market or you can’t get your components to where they need to go or there are rolling COVID lockdowns, wherever you want to actually end up manufacturing, it doesn’t matter if you’re paying less because you’re going to get killed along the way there. Strategic stability was something that we had to optimize for. And so we’re at a point where we’re entering into our manufacturing phase and by the springtime, we’re going to have this on the market. And it’s been a tremendously, tremendously exciting strategic problem to solve, but also to test it is also tons of fun. I don’t think you’ve announced prices. JO: We haven’t. What seems clear to me is, this is obviously a niche product. JO: It is. And niche products should be priced very highly and that also gives you room to do things like manufacturing in the US because you have sort of the margin to cover it, assuming it works out. Is that a fair sort of characterization of the way you’re thinking about that? JO: It is. And because we’ve taken again, a unique feature set of what we see as, you talked about the throttle quadrant and the rudder pedals and the yolks and how in combining that all into a device that’s just as versatile, but has a lot of value because of its size and its capabilities. That’s how we think about it. I mean look, all three of those different components together taking over your desk, that’s can be like almost a thousand bucks in some cases, right? Yeah. JO: It’s a lot. Against that number, it’s extremely, extremely reasonable, but we’re going to be hammering that out and announcing that later in the spring. But that’s the customer kind of mindset we want to think about here when we think about the products that it would be complementary to. But we were opening up a whole new market here. I was at my brother’s place last week and I was showing this to him and I had it up running on my laptop and he said, “Why don’t you mirror it to my TV?” I’m like, “Oh, wow. Okay.” We kind of had thought about that, but actually doing it, where I’m sitting on his couch and my MacBook Air is running a sim and it’s running with little to no latency to mirroring on his TV. And I’m sitting there on his couch flying an airplane, and it’s just the use cases that we have just keep opening up. We have VR and we have the flying an airplane on an airplane. It’s kind of amazing because we got feedback today when we were announcing, we heard from one gentleman who says, “I can’t use my legs, so having a flight simulator with that level of fidelity isn’t possible, because the idea of rudder pedals just isn’t in my thinking, so this actually will allow me to fly for the first time on the platforms that I want to because I have mechanical rudder pedals at my fingertips,” and it’s like, wow. There’s levels to this that we hadn’t even considered that really kind of open up the world to think about what we’re building here. It’s been tremendous amounts of fun. Yeah, I think you’re in the fun stage now. I would be very interested in a year to check in and see how it goes. JO: Yeah, exactly. The actual getting into channel, figuring out the pricing strategy. Obviously, you have to actually make these things ahead of time and then sell them. There’s inventory costs, things on those lines. JO: Oh, yeah. It’s going to be very interesting to see how it develops. But you do have a day job, that continues to be very interesting because airlines are fascinating. I mean, it’s funny, it’s like the level of fascination with the airline industry is not at all correlated to how much money they make. JO: No. That is the Warren Buffet observation that, this is an industry that never makes money. JO: It runs on passion, not money. It really does. It really does. But hey, maybe scarcity in our inability to build anything and lots of regulation is going to fix that problem. That kind of seems to be the story. JO: It’s never a dull moment. It hasn’t been for the last 15 years. It’s just one endlessly interesting thing after another. And the amazing is, they all connect, one way or another. Absolutely. Well, Jon Ostrower, thanks for coming on. I think this was super interesting and look forward to seeing you write about all this in the Air Current and I need to get my hand on one of these controllers. JO: Awesome. Thanks, Ben. Really appreciate it. This Daily Update Interview is also available as a podcast. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery . The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly. Thanks for being a supporter, and have a great day! Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery | Sharp Tech | Dithering | Sharp China | GOAT Subscription Information Member: Omar Zoheri Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com Member since: December 8, 2022 Auto-renewal is disabled Expiration date: December 8, 2023 You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery . Click here to view your account and manage your subscriptions. © 2023 Stratechery LLC ,
                                                        2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703