# Document: =UTF-8qIntroducing_Puck=E2=80=99s_newest_partner,_Leigh_Ann_Caldwell=_Thu,_23_Jan_2025_17-30-48_+0000_1949437a70d6cea4_20250819_090723.html

We’re living in historic times. As Washington settles into the rhythms of a new administration, I could not be more thrilled to welcome Leigh Ann Caldwell to our remarkable and ever expanding partnership at Puck. Leigh Ann is an Emmy Award–winning veteran of NBC, CNN, CBS, and C-SPAN—and, most recently, a lead anchor and senior reporter at The Washington Post. There’s nobody on Capitol Hill who is better sourced or more plugged into the legislators, deal flow, egos, and inside chatter that truly drives the town’s agenda.

Good afternoon, We’re living in historic times. As Washington settles into the rhythms of a new administration, I could not be more thrilled to welcome Leigh Ann Caldwell to our remarkable and ever expanding partnership at Puck. Leigh Ann is an Emmy Award–winning veteran of NBC, CNN, CBS, and C-SPAN—and, most recently, a lead anchor and senior reporter at The Washington Post. There’s nobody on Capitol Hill who is better sourced or more plugged into the legislators, deal flow, egos, and inside chatter that truly drives the town’s agenda. Starting on Sunday, Leigh Ann will begin writing and reporting for The Best & The Brightest multiple times per week. Watch your inbox for her first dispatch. And, if you’re not already on her list, make sure to sign up now . I’ve admired Leigh Ann for many years, and her work has closely informed my own understanding of Washington. And now, the need for savvy, unbiased reporting and insider intelligence has never been higher. Leigh Ann’s voice, experience, perspective, and extraordinary institutional knowledge will make you smarter, too. Have a great week, Jon You received this message because you signed up to receive emails from Puck. Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up for Puck here Sent to puck@khamel.com unsubscribe Interested in exploring our newsletter offerings? Manage your preferences Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 227 W 17th St New York, NY 10011 For support, just reply to this e-mail. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news