# Document: =UTF-8qWeekly_Recap_ODLR=E2=80=99s_Anti-Media_Strategy_&_The_Future_o=
 =UTF-8qf_Art_Staycations=_Sun,_16_Feb_2025_19-00-40_+0000_195102280c604c3f_20250818_154500.eml

Welcome back to your weekly roundup of Puck’s exclusive Inner Circle hits. As the Inner Circle continues to expand, we’re excited to share exclusive content from Line Sheet and Wall Power. For full access to this special reporting, you can upgrade here.

Hey there, Welcome back to your weekly roundup of Puck’s exclusive Inner Circle hits. As the Inner Circle continues to expand, we’re excited to share exclusive
content from Line Sheet and Wall Power. For full access to this special reporting, you can upgrade here . In this issue: Lauren Sherman offers an inside
look at Oscar de la Renta C.E.O. Alex Bolen ’s unorthodox anti-establishment marketing strategy. Meanwhile, Marion Maneker sits down with the top curator of 21c Museum Hotels, Alice Gray Stites , to examine the commercial logic of “living with art.” Enjoy! FASHION Lauren Sherman Oscar Season A few years back, Oscar de la Renta C.E.O. Alex Bolen decided to stop
investing in runway shows and instead direct his marketing budget toward celebrity dressing. Bolen didn’t just say goodbye to big, expensive runway to-dos—he also declined to share lookbooks with members of the press, or permit any reviews of collections. And yet, Bolen didn’t really stop staging shows altogether. Very Important Clients continued to be treated to runway presentations across the country, one of which Lauren attended this
week. But as she notes, the only ingredients missing from this affair were journalists and editors, given Bolen’s “friendly” press ban, which has ironically gotten Bolen more attention than any review ever could. Can the brand’s freshly appointed C.M.O., Chloe Popescu, expand on this strategy? Read Now ART Marion Maneker Condition Report: Alice Gray Stites’s Art of Hospitality A full decade before Iwan Wirth and Manuela Hauser launched Artfarm—the
hospitality and development company behind their famed Manhattan gallery-restaurant hybrid, Manuela—the major contemporary art collectors Laura Lee Brown and Steve Wilson founded 21c Museum Hotels: a boutique museum-hotel chain that offers the broader public a way to experience living with art, at least temporarily. Over the past 20 years, the award-winning business has expanded from its initial location in Louisville to Bentonville, Durham, St. Louis, Lexington, Cincinnati, and Chicago.
Herewith, a conversation between Marion and Alice Gray Stites, the museum director and chief curator at 21c Museum Hotels, about the idea of “living with art,” the complicated logistics of a museum-hotel hybrid, and the chain’s program to “elevate” local artists. Read
Now Join us in the Inner
Circle Becoming an Inner Circle member now takes you even more
inside to exclusive coverage you won't get anywhere else Exclusive bonus days of select newsletters Exclusive access to Puck merch Early bird access to new Editorial and Product features Invitations to private conference calls with Puck authors Every Friday, you’ll receive ‘The Crier’, an Inner Circle exclusive newsletter to keep you apprised of the exclusive opportunities available to you. JOIN THE INNER CIRCLE Exclusive Bonus Days of
Select Newsletters Line Sheet LAUREN SHERMAN, RACHEL STRUGATZ & SARAH SHAPIRO Inner Circle subscribers receive exclusive access to bonus
Thursday editions of Line Sheet Wall Power MARION MANEKER & JULIE DAVICH Inner Circle subscribers receive exclusive access to bonus
Wednesday editions of Wall Power JOIN THE INNER CIRCLE Need help? Review our FAQ page or contact us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 107 Greenwich St, New York, NY 10006