# Document: The Sabatoquake, Dior Succession Open Secrets & A Mugler Misfire_Fri,_07_Feb_2025_00-15-34_+0000_194ddc31fc5dc234_20250819_090726.eml

Hi, and welcome back to Line Sheet. For our extra-special, First-Day-of-New York-Fashion-Week Inner Circle issue, I dig into what’s really happening behind the scenes at Kering—and LVMH—on the back of this Sabato De Sarno departure news. I also have a fun Vogue scooplet, so many thoughts (haha, get it?) on the Kate Middleton fashion gag order (thanks to the hosts of Jam Session for bringing it to my attention), and a persuasive argument to prevent L’Oréal from once again trying its hand at ready-to-wear now that designer Casey Cadwallader is out at Mugler.

Feb 06, 2025 PREVIEW VERSION For full access to Puck Inner Circle content, upgrade today. Lauren Sherman Hi, and welcome back to Line Sheet. Gucci!!! Sabato !!! What
a journey. Glad we’ve been on it together. For our extra-special, First-Day-of-New York-Fashion-Week Inner Circle issue, I dig into what’s really happening behind the scenes at Kering— and LVMH—on the back of this Sabato De Sarno departure news. I also have a fun Vogue scooplet, so many
thoughts ( haha, get it? ) on the Kate Middleton fashion gag order (thanks to the hosts of Jam Session for bringing it to my attention), and a persuasive argument to prevent L’Oréal from once again trying its hand at ready-to-wear now that designer Casey Cadwallader is out at Mugler. Meanwhile, back in New York, last night was fun . I got to hug Maria Cornejo on the 65th floor of Rockefeller Center (thank you, CFDA, for bringing us together), and took a peek inside the new Tao Group–managed Crane Club, where Saks Global’s Marc Metrick and Emily Essner were holding court.
Finally, I landed at Bridges for a Gabby Katz –organized dinner celebrating Aligne , a British label that sells TikTok-viral blazers and is run by Ginny Seymour , who got her start 20 years ago in the executive training program at Saks. (Guests included online stars Arielle Charnas , Tara Moni , and Jalil Johnson —plus newish, young editors like Marie Claire ’s Nikki Ogunnaike . All in all, it was an affiliate marketing platform fantasy come to life.) Today, the shows really got going, starting with Brandon Maxwell and ending with Christopher John Rogers. 🚨🚨 Programming note : Tomorrow on Fashion People , I’m thrilled to welcome podcasters Cynthia True and Dennis Golonka , hosts of Blow-Up: When Liz Tilberis Transformed Bazaar . We discuss life at Harper’s Bazaar in the 1990s, what the modern fashion industry would be like if Liz were still around
(she tragically died of cancer in 1999), and why they wanted to tell her story. Liz and her magazine were a huge inspiration for me growing up—the primary reason I wanted to be a fashion journalist—and I’m grateful to Cynthia and Dennis for sharing so much. I hope you enjoy listening here or here . Mentioned in this issue : Sabato De Sarno , Gucci, Kering, Virginie Viard , Chanel, François-Henri Pinault , LVMH, Marco Bizzarri , Hedi Slimane , Alessandro Michele , Bally, Jil Sander, Simone
Bellotti , Delphine Arnault , Dior, Jonathan Anderson , Loewe, Kim Jones , Maria Grazia Chiuri , Marc Jacobs , Saint Laurent, Anna Wintour , L’Oréal, Kate Middleton , Michelle Obama , and many more… Three
Things You Should Know… Who
should be Vogue’s next guest editor? : I hear that Vogue ’s fabulous December 2024 issue, guest-edited by Marc Jacobs , has inspired the brand to make the shtick an annual thing. But as his recent show at the New York Public Library demonstrated , Jacobs is a tough act to follow. Not only was he deeply... A MESSAGE FROM OUR SPONSOR PERFORMANCE UNLEASHED With a distinct sporting personality, the Range Rover Sport is a peerless performer. EXPLORE Can’t see the full story? For full access to Puck Inner Circle content, upgrade
today. UPGRADE TO THE INNER CIRCLE Say It Ain’t Sabato The long-expected ouster of Gucci designer Sabato De Sarno has finally come to pass,
albeit somewhat more brutally than anticipated… and without anyone on deck to replace him. Is it Maria Grazia Chiuri’s turn? Hedi Slimane’s? Or is Kering going to surprise us all? Lauren Sherman At around 11 a.m. in Milan on Wednesday, Gucci sent an internal H.R. memo
that a new designer would be joining the studio and reporting to creative director Sabato De Sarno , who was slated to present his next collection in Milan on February 25. But that show—which De Sarno was already pre-casting in New York last weekend—will be his last. A few hours later, around 2 p.m., De Sarno was informed that his brief, slightly
tortured , disappointing, not-even-two-year run at Gucci had come to an end. That news hastily hit the wires first thing the next morning. Executives uninvolved in the decision were left... UPGRADE TO THE INNER CIRCLE Puck’s daily art market email, anchored by industry expert Marion Maneker, offers unparalleled access to the mega-auctions
and galleries, elite buyers and sellers, and the power players who run this opaque world. Wall Power also features Julie Brener Davich, a veteran of Christie’s and Sotheby’s, who provides unique insights into how the business really works. Puck founding partner Matt Belloni takes you inside the business of Hollywood, using exclusive reporting and insight to
explain the backstories on everything from Marvel movies to the streaming wars. Shari’s CBS Calculus DYLAN BYERS The Estée Lauder Makeover RACHEL STRUGATZ Wall Street’s Tariff Bet WILLIAM D. COHAN Need help? Review our FAQ page or contact us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 107 Greenwich St, New York, NY 10006