# Document: =UTF-8qFires=E2=80=99_Fashion_Aftershocks,_A_Pinault_Deal_&_An_Arnault=
 =UTF-8q_Fils_Pickle=_Thu,_16_Jan_2025_23-00-37_+0000_1947158f88560df8_20250819_090723.html

Hi, and welcome back to Line Sheet. Today is the second edition of our great Inner Circle project. Today, I have an update on the Lanvin Group, an interesting Kering real estate play, Alexandre Arnault’s Russia problem, and so much more. For the main event, I’m offering a real-time assessment of the early aftershocks in our industry resulting from the L.A. wildfires’ impact on Hollywood, particularly as awards season rolls around.

Jan 16, 2025 PREVIEW VERSION For full access to Puck Inner Circle content, upgrade today. Lauren Sherman Hi, and welcome back to Line Sheet. Today is the second edition
of our great Inner Circle project. (If you haven’t upgraded yet, you can do so here . Trust me: it’s worth it.) Along with this members-only send, the Inner Circle gives you access to tons of other great stuff, including guarded intel from Marion Maneker and Julie Brener
Davich ’s private email on the art market, Wall Power. They send an Inner Circle-only note every Wednesday covering lots of folks from the fashion world, including my two number ones— Pinault and Arnault —whose already massive art collections are growing by the day. More on the Pinault Collection below and changes at the family office, Groupe Artémis. Meanwhile, Puck’s Inner Circle offerings will be expanding significantly this quarter. Today, I have an update on the Lanvin Group, an interesting Kering real estate play, Alexandre Arnault ’s Russia problem, and so much more. For the main event, I’m offering a real-time assessment of the early aftershocks in our industry resulting from the L.A. wildfires’ impact on Hollywood, particularly as awards season rolls around. Speaking of which: if you’re looking for a novel way to help, my friend Jake Longstreth is selling a limited-edition run of one of his paintings, Paseo Colorado . The proceeds will be donated to GoFundMe accounts of artists who lost their homes, studios, or businesses in the Eaton fire. If you’re interested, message Jake or Pace Prints on Instagram. 🚨🚨 Programming note : Tomorrow on Fashion People , Brother Vellies designer Aurora James and I dig into what she’s doing about the fires through her charity, Fifteen Percent Pledge, and what
fashion brands are doing, and can do , to help. (Listen here and here .) The profits from the Fifteen Percent Pledge Gala, occurring on the Paramount back lot on the evening of February 1, will go toward impacted Black-owned businesses in the
region. Same for tickets to the 15th Street Block Party, a marketplace featuring Black-owned brands, which will be open all day on February 1 and 2… also at Paramount. (You can buy your tickets for the block party here .) Mentioned in this issue : Peter Copping , Tiffany, Andy Lew , Eric Chan , Armani, Valentino, Alexandre Arnault , LVMH, Jean-Jacques Guiony , Balenciaga, Lanvin, Philippe Schaus , Moët Hennessy, Nicolas Ghesquière , Jonathan Anderson , Louis Vuitton, Matthieu Blazy , Chanel, Tilda Swinton , John Galliano , Dior, Virginie Viard , Calvin Klein, Maison Margiela, Celine, Greta Lee , and
many, many more… Three Things You Should
Know… Yes, the Lanvin Group is still a public company : This morning, before the markets opened, the Fosun International-controlled, New York Stock Exchange-listed fashion collective announced that St. John Knits C.E.O. Andy Lew would be... Can’t see the full story? For full access to Puck Inner Circle content,
upgrade today. UPGRADE TO THE INNER CIRCLE The Fires, Fashion & The Red Carpet The industry is anxiously waiting for Hollywood’s A-list to RSVP to
the upcoming shows in New York, Milan, Paris, and London—and those anxieties have only been amplified by the fires. “The big houses are worried,” one C-suite luxury executive told me. “We know the celebrity impact.” Lauren Sherman On Tuesday morning, as the Santa Ana winds were still blowing in Los Angeles, the fashion world continued to hold its breath. The industry was waiting on Hollywood to signal whether or not any major talents would be headed to the menswear shows next week, or the couture shows the week after… not to mention the women’s ready-to-wear shows in February and March, which were already being negatively impacted by the Oscars falling this year on March 2, between Milan and Paris, forcing houses to stretch resources while staging the runway and front row and outfitting A-list stars on the red carpet. “The big houses are worried,” one C-suite luxury executive told me. “We know the... UPGRADE TO THE INNER CIRCLE Finally, a media podcast about what’s actually happening in the media—not the oversanitized,
legal-and-standards-approved version you read online. Join Dylan Byers, Puck’s veteran media reporter, as he sits down with TV personalities, moguls, pundits, and industry executives for raw, honest, sometimes salacious conversations about the business of media and its biggest egos. New episodes publish every Tuesday and Friday. Puck’s daily art market email, anchored by industry expert Marion Maneker, offers unparalleled access to the
mega-auctions and galleries, elite buyers and sellers, and the power players who run this opaque world. Wall Power also features Julie Davich, a veteran of Christie’s and Sotheby’s, who provides unique insights into how the business really works. Ackman’s Buffett Play WILLIAM D. COHAN Fashion Dupe Wars RACHEL STRUGATZ The Morandi Moment MARION MANEKER Need help? Review our FAQ page or contact us for assistance. For brand partnerships, email ads@puck.news . You received this email because you signed up to receive emails from Puck, or as part of your Puck account associated with puck@khamel.com. To stop receiving this newsletter and/or manage all your email preferences, click
here . Puck is published by Heat Media LLC. 107 Greenwich St, New York, NY 10006