# An Interview with Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross About the Human Component of AI (Stratechery Interview 12-14-2023)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/An Interview with Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross About the Human Component of AI (Stratechery Interview 12-14-2023)_Thu,_14_Dec_2023_11-31-33_+0000_18c6818c4ec9db37.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:25.853727

---

An interview with Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross about the human component of AI, OpenAI drama, Nvidia, Goole, Apple, and predictions for 2024.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-nat-friedman-and-daniel-gross-about-the-human-component-of-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FuLWludGVydmlldy13aXRoLW5hdC1mcmllZG1hbi1hbmQtZGFuaWVsLWdyb3NzLWFib3V0LXRoZS1odW1hbi1jb21wb25lbnQtb2YtYWkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.rViA3OflHJ93VJH2HdM749HCiwGlJUczpap8A1SvF4f_7bJqcLnAI_9u7dqEZjRpDWPgPA--o3qBXwTaPjPmaRV_lMuKpD8AMiOiTFm5KXs6s9LA-yiy-uN1eY-J_fYv9xd-AywmGWF-B8BalEec8g6gNrd0AXvunNsRZMsDtlK8F1iX_MiIATjoPNLxKVZLN00_HUBHsKl2oz9ve5lLTk0VJF_Zn5mepoegaS4b73n2jgmsSbpTt79ycsqJ5RrCiJ02O2M8jL7KZlJcF5jD0G12-7lkzgP0o50YwAA5GEwpmdGrZgl9K2N59DsbyvS5XYMnul0KLEzUu0O21hPjWQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

An Interview with Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross About the Human Component of AI

( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-nat-friedman-and-daniel-gross-about-the-human-component-of-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.rViA3OflHJ93VJH2HdM749HCiwGlJUczpap8A1SvF4f_7bJqcLnAI_9u7dqEZjRpDWPgPA--o3qBXwTaPjPmaRV_lMuKpD8AMiOiTFm5KXs6s9LA-yiy-uN1eY-J_fYv9xd-AywmGWF-B8BalEec8g6gNrd0AXvunNsRZMsDtlK8F1iX_MiIATjoPNLxKVZLN00_HUBHsKl2oz9ve5lLTk0VJF_Zn5mepoegaS4b73n2jgmsSbpTt79ycsqJ5RrCiJ02O2M8jL7KZlJcF5jD0G12-7lkzgP0o50YwAA5GEwpmdGrZgl9K2N59DsbyvS5XYMnul0KLEzUu0O21hPjWQ ) Thursday, December 14, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

I am happy to welcome Daniel Gross ( https://twitter.com/danielgross ) and Nat Friedman ( https://twitter.com/natfriedman ) back for the final Stratechery Interview of the year, and the fifth in our ongoing series (we previously talked in October 2022 ( https://stratechery.com/2022/an-interview-with-daniel-gross-and-nat-friedman-about-the-democratization-of-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.clkvxkmdMeD2tJjzyq2AyEhFuQOIhSK5z2hP_cX8iN7jCJNPkfUl3MPZ2XLVhgkUgKTgVEW349VVbTDm9dWfWAn8U1g7_vhhZTqUenPHKhAQ1lFzskfyNSwVy1Y_moEMheF4xBolWGUz9M5M2N_IcKtQ3e5h6VLYNrHQuPFH1diWlQC-lcPtwSnujW9sCtlksUVWCcGcdTJeXOhpgeW7cv42HLJ1BrD-11no9gi4RsPGVsuaSf1A11WBVyX-Pcwov0KVB79kVEbKsJ__5jZxjUcrtxSCpDDbcOpb2H2xuh78LikYzCgeQeTexltXGaabrfalVznfm-WdALl5Fj9OAg ) , December 2022 ( https://stratechery.com/2022/an-interview-with-daniel-gross-and-nat-friedman-about-chatgpt-and-the-near-term-future-of-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.tRNWGvq97BETI9wZ0toMZA9supi_9O0TgE_xooxu0Zm-M_GXngJAS90g9rtaEMnIxw7dD-71SwE_LiQwauqhKOfP8J9cSiGZ59BOedmPlYpa_Eu9A8wrvTXvCnHkWKLWxRWLfJlSWri2u5nf8nG3wyIseQQkQoDoKFxlRSO8uUoZxZm-xfCEGmIKQTtCoSOu0Rggs_DFlokWWc3fjK8ZkRqtlsgtSP3IJa97fDEVnUNjfpIdys6w4u5Ngj9NS1vZgyI2QL-cP79k3e5ldVRugS8GZv-xndGyTbEMVA8y9V_yUJPqzwg1Hm1ql-ydbhtyAOcuhKYHupujRbWPg_gsLA ) , March 2023 ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-daniel-gross-and-nat-friedman-about-the-ai-product-revolution/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FuLWludGVydmlldy13aXRoLWRhbmllbC1ncm9zcy1hbmQtbmF0LWZyaWVkbWFuLWFib3V0LXRoZS1haS1wcm9kdWN0LXJldm9sdXRpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.P-hh5Etj-RBMxx5pruu55vI4UApK6YbA4o5zabjW3mdechYFauCdXeB-IYTB3fWh1E7mJ_hrk6teD9BijzwwIvYJssdrrThO-XYs1crvISGfwutC7Z19kCAyUbwvDno13D8QZQrbaTLR-BNFqMPMh421QXJqvSOjnpW50ORXODluS32bM02rbH9zfztKK-71UuIK6IbYo-6vrymJ5alfPQYM8OE4yV7LGrNuAhuHYcvVfoBnsdbMkz7F1K1ko2SZBjTXmemcXGxp9lgkEvlF5ixEdpjRf57ceCF78ihLB_AXoEQR9acXEMk3Om13yNtJryysPYSPXtMcWRaL-EgVaw ) , and August 2023 ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-daniel-gross-and-nat-friedman-about-the-ai-hype-cycle/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FuLWludGVydmlldy13aXRoLWRhbmllbC1ncm9zcy1hbmQtbmF0LWZyaWVkbWFuLWFib3V0LXRoZS1haS1oeXBlLWN5Y2xlLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA1MTQ1NDkzLCJpYXQiOjE3MDI1NTM0OTMsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.YM7dAzFpD9Y8HBqn68MTml6GyjFUpsW8fCqMajlA4Q25sOl-ppfWxbrqJeajaXvZ4HdGl51dBwQXkhfcx8JvIxp-FhlfsSQNr-q6dAqTTK2PBvGaf2EVSEXDMCvbBQ1XkmtpTBjp4P3e7PSXKfUeMdlelH7EKWKtu7hBzfJDA5Vl8OUCc3V0WejP9PQFXvafyUW0xC083LajlwQs0EC2dbYFevOpcA1STvEOle1AJvqXgtf2TThOPVRc3gH9elarBM1gR-YCZWChMR8JZigmoxmTlKT4oMFenOSLxp7NoRNbVt9PKx54XgJHMWuhrQO_f1zqdB73Rt35Yeb1J2JCeA ).

Since we last talked there has been a lot of drama in the AI world, particularly the leadership upheaval at OpenAI. That is where I planned to start the interview, but we got rather side-tracked into questions of vibes and philosophy; that, though, is arguably the best way to think about what happened in November, and what may happen going forward. Still, we did get into some company and tech talk too, including discussions about Nvidia, Mistral, Google, Apple, and predictions for what might be coming in 2024.

To listen to this interview as a podcast, click the link at the top of this email to add Stratechery to your podcast player.

On to the interview:

An Interview with Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross About the Human Component of AI
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This interview is lightly edited for clarity.

*Topics:*
Industry Vibes ( #vibes ) | Asymptotes and AI Religion ( #asymptotes ) | OpenAI Drama ( #openai-drama ) | OpenAI Past and Future ( #openai-past-future ) | Nvidia and Mistral ( #nvidia-mistral ) | Google and Apple ( #google-apple ) | 2024 ( #2024 )

Industry Vibes

*Nat and Daniel, welcome back to Stratechery.*

*Nat Friedman:* Thanks for having us, Ben.

*Daniel Gross:* Thanks for having us.

*We are here to talk about things like AI and automation, but we’re starting a little late because Daniel, you had to experience the wonderful world of airline delays and being stuck in lounges and whatnot. You were at the NeurIPS AI conference ( https://nips.cc/ ) , and what was the vibe? Let’s do a vibe check on the industry generally.*

*DG:* Thanks for having us again, and yeah I come bearing tidings from New Orleans, which is not where you’d expect to be the capital of artificial intelligence, but for one week in early December, it is. There’s an annual conference that’s been held there I think the last three years, and it’s called NeurIPS — it used to have a different name, and it is, I think, the largest AI conference in the United States, at least.

The most obvious thing I observed, at least from coming there, is how industrialized it is now. I’ve gone there a few years, and, you know, in 2016 or 2017, you’d feel like you were meeting a bunch of refugees who were working on alchemy that no one else appreciated, and when I showed up this time, there were three different simultaneous parties by three different quant firms trying to attract the best and the brightest. Everyone should have a spouse that looks at them like the recruiters of these quant firms look at the passing array of math and machine learning wizards that go through.

There were booths basically for every major tech company except OpenAI, which I thought was sort of interesting, and as a random aside, there were actually two distinct booths for Google. There was a DeepMind booth, and then there was a Google Research booth. You could sort of see Jeff Dean ( https://research.google/people/jeffrey-dean/ ) literally standing in between both of them not quite sure which one he belongs to, and you know what I thought was sort of interesting was just to talk to the different recruiters of these companies that attend these conferences in an attempt to recruit these engineers, you really get a sense of what the market is like and the recruiters of course all talk to each other and learn interesting things.

As a random aside, it seemed like Nvidia really started paying top dollar for machine learning talent, competing with the likes of OpenAI, which is not something I’d expected, and you could also see the businesses that ultimately have a heroic mission, meaning that they’re working on something like AGI, actually managed to get by by hiring fairly high quality people and paying them very little. It’s funny that the people I think that struggle the most are either the very large established companies like LG or I don’t know Sony that are not known as AI-forward — they have the largest booths — and all these financial firms. It really goes to show you at the end of the day, the fitness function that these people work on is something a little bit spiritual, which I think may tie in to all that drama we’ve been seeing a little bit at OpenAI lately.

*Do you feel that’s still the case? Because you mentioned you had all these refugees six, seven years ago, and now as it’s transformed and there are a huge number of opportunities and it’s become industrialized to your point, is that vibe shifting at all or is this spiritual mission of AI still a real fundamental incentive for people in the field?*

*DG:* California has always been the birthplace of cults and religions — the hippie movement started here, LSD, that whole thing — and that I think is evergreen, and to some extent, in the early days of fintech, it was also somewhat of a spiritual movement. You’re right that as it crested and became normie and companies went public, it became more of a mainstream thing.

I think we’re still in the 1994 equivalent of AI where it is very much a spiritual project, and AI is a little bit different from fintech or the Internet in the sense that it’s a little that as you get closer to the horizon event it only becomes more intense, because obviously the penultimate goal with AI is to, if you believe them, summon a kind of god, and so there is people — it very much feels like walking through Los Alamos, what I imagine walking through Los Alamos must have felt like during the Manhattan Project, where there’s a real searching for a sense of belonging and meaning and intellectual curiosity that’s the driving force behind all of this, and that creates, I think, distortions in the market.

Paying salary to people is important so they feel like they’re not missing out on opportunity cost, but I don’t think it’s the primary motivation of a lot of these people, which is also what drives a lot of instability, I think, at some of these companies. They’re not purely rationally motivated in some sense, it’s a point that Nat has made is that we were probably only in the early innings of these kinds of AI wars, just because the substrate of motivation in the field in Silicon Valley has never been economical and it’s especially not economical with this revolution.

*Is there a causal effect where you touched on something — there can be a spiritual aspect, there can be a search for meaning, there can be a fear of the future a fear of what might happen — is there a personality driver where folks end up, where perhaps you think that the world’s not going to end, it’s going to be fine. Does that mean you’re more likely to go into an immediate sort of application of AI? Whereas if you’re more worried or uptight or anxious about the future, that’s going to drive you to, in some sense, I don’t know, it’s like a death wish, like pursue it and go further. Or is it the opposite? If you’re working on the future that actually makes you more concerned and makes you more anxious. I’m curious — it’s hard to tease out, we’re psychoanalyzing the field broadly, but as far as these personality traits and what folks actually pursue, what order is the causality there?*

*DG:* If I had to imagine the S curve of any technological field, I think at the high G moment where you’re really ascending the S curve, you’re probably getting the least amount of pure capitalists and the most amount of people that are just fueled by different things. Now some of those motivations I think are very beautiful and pure, just like intellectual curiosity and a desire to make something significant in the world. But you’re not getting the people, I think in any cycle basically at this point, you’re not getting the people that just want to make a buck.

There is a reflexivity to your point I think people work on a lot of the stuff and Silicon Valley culturally goes through usually at this time every year, a moment of indigestion about AGI. It happened last right around around November of last year, too, after ChatGPT launched, and it’s happening now as a byproduct of the OpenAI Agents launch ( https://openai.com/blog/new-models-and-developer-products-announced-at-devday ) , the drama at OpenAI ( https://openai.com/blog/sam-altman-returns-as-ceo-openai-has-a-new-initial-board ) , and then also some of these open source models, where I think the entire field, in unison — I think everyone has similar emotions, that basically compress the timelines of when a very powerful model might get created.

If I had to guess we will continue to go through these cycles, like mini cycles, even though we’re ascending on the S curve, you go through these smaller cycles from consternation to comfort, basically, and this time of the year, you know, is just usually one where people really think the stuff is around the corner, and so I think the whole market is trying to figure that out. Not everyone believes that. I think there’s people, you know, we could talk about, other theories, maybe the transformer has diminishing returns.

*Right, there’s a asymptote that we may be approaching.*

*DG:* But the dinnertime conversation in Silicon Valley after every one of these launches is, “Oh gosh, is this the Trinity Test moment ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinity_(nuclear_test) ) ? We’re sort of at that period right now.

Asymptotes and AI Religion

*What do you think, Nat?*

*NF:* I think the central question of AI right now is where is the asymptote and how close are we to it? If it’s near and not too much higher, then this is a transformative technology and it’s a new technology platform and it’s an incredible gold rush and it’s something normal that we can understand and there’s a lot of money to be made and applications to be built. It’s sort of Browser Wars 2.0 or something like that between Microsoft and Google.

If we’re not near an asymptote if you know, my god, there is no asymptote or at least none that we can perceive, then it’s hard to know what happens next, and we’re probably going to have a very different civilization. I was looking at a chart recently on Twitter or on X ( https://x.com/TrungTPhan/status/1735087248952185080?s=20 ) of how people meet, how couples meet, and it does what you expect. Online goes from like zero to the vast majority of all couplings over the last 15 years or so, and like every other way of meeting has gone away. That’s mobile, that’s the Internet, that’s what it did, it’s a reordering our society at the fundamental genetic level in terms of how people meet and pair, and I think we can expect AI to do some version of that in any scenario, but in the case where we do birth super-intelligence and the asymptote is much higher than we are now or very soon and still very high, it’s going to be incredibly transformational.

I think no one knows. I wouldn’t dare to make a specific prediction except to say that I think intelligence in people is a purely material phenomenon. I don’t think there’s a divine spark, there’s no supernatural origin of our intelligence. It’s something like muscle strength where it’s just a physical process and it’s therefore something that if you believe in human ingenuity and the techno-capital machine and its ability to create progress and innovate and sort of break through barriers, then you have to believe we’ll get better and better at replicating this physical intelligence process as well and exceeding human capacity there, and so I think that’s my base belief is that it’s possible, and the question is, “How soon is it?” and, “What’s the gap?”.

We see examples in the current regime of using transformers and training on Internet data of mysterious gaps, things that are easy for us and hard for transformers, and they give us comfort, but every new generation that list changes and gets smaller, and so right now we can look at like the reversal curse, where if you train a model that, “A is B”, it doesn’t always know that “B is A”, even though we believe in that property of things, and it seems simple and strange for us. I think every new generation brings new levels of scale.

We talked, you know, Ben, do you remember in one of our early conversations, we talked about this incredibly steep slope ( https://stratechery.com/2023/an-interview-with-daniel-gross-and-nat-friedman-about-the-ai-product-revolution/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.P-hh5Etj-RBMxx5pruu55vI4UApK6YbA4o5zabjW3mdechYFauCdXeB-IYTB3fWh1E7mJ_hrk6teD9BijzwwIvYJssdrrThO-XYs1crvISGfwutC7Z19kCAyUbwvDno13D8QZQrbaTLR-BNFqMPMh421QXJqvSOjnpW50ORXODluS32bM02rbH9zfztKK-71UuIK6IbYo-6vrymJ5alfPQYM8OE4yV7LGrNuAhuHYcvVfoBnsdbMkz7F1K1ko2SZBjTXmemcXGxp9lgkEvlF5ixEdpjRf57ceCF78ihLB_AXoEQR9acXEMk3Om13yNtJryysPYSPXtMcWRaL-EgVaw ) that people who are new to AI would experience if they were first introduced to AI through ChatGPT, and then just a few months later, they saw GPT-4 come out, and it would seem like, “My gosh, there’s just incredibly fast progress, we’re in the fast takeoff now, the moon will be converted to Computronium ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computronium ) within a few years, we’re gonna have humanoid robots running around”, and so I think if you were initiated on that slope, it might feel a little bit like things are slowing down right now, but I think you had the wrong training data in that case because the actual time between GPT-3 and GPT-4 was more like a few years. There’s a natural speed break on training these larger models, which is the cluster construction time. GPT-5, hasn’t been training until now because the cluster hasn’t existed until now and so I think with new innovations and the next level of scale and huge new investments, we’ll probably continue to see growth, and whether it asymptotes or not, or when, hard to say.

*Well, first off, I appreciate the very gentle way that you corrected my pronunciation of asymptote, well done by you. Number two, not to back away too quickly from the philosophical point, I know we’ve sort of discussed this offline, but it does get to, I think, this causal question that I was pushing on before, where, like, honestly, the reason why this is very fascinating is it is a philosophical/theological debate in many respects. If we are just material and there is nothing particularly unique about humanity, it seems completely logical to assume that it will be surpassed, and that is something to be concerned about and worried about. Other species have been driven extinct, why wouldn’t humans?*

*It’s interesting, to what extent can you pull apart or divorce all the stuff with AI? To what extent has the Internet, for example, and technology driven society to be less religious, for example, or tech in particular is I’d say the majority of people in tech are atheists. How does that actually interact with and drive and undergird not just the technology itself but also sort of the underlying currents — this isn’t a debate about which is right or wrong other than to recognize the drivers, it feels like, of what’s happening here are actually extremely fundamental.*

*NF:* I think that’s right. We’re building this incredible technology at a time where there’s a great void in society of religious belief, at least among the people who are building it, most of them. Although there are some very observant religious people leading some of these projects, which is interesting.

*I think the very observant religious people are probably the people that are least concerned about it, would be my guess.*

*NF:* I think that’s true, yeah. There’s a famous line in an Noam Shazeer paper ( https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05202v1 ) where he’s talking about how well a certain technique works, and he says, “We attribute the success of this technique as with all else to divine benevolence” and I think there’s a way in which some of the people in this field sort of believe that the way in which intelligence seems sort of over-determined and that there’s lots of techniques that work. You use these GPUs and a lot of compute and you get intelligence multiple ways. I think that’s true.

I think we were starting to see, and we’ll see more and more AGI cults, as Daniel was alluding to — people who really do believe this is like a theological project to immanentize the eschaton ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immanentize_the_eschaton ). Part of that is because, gosh how could you see it any other way if you actually build super-intelligence? I mean, it’s not a god in the sense that it’s still going to be subject to physics of the world as they are, maybe not as we understand them, but as they are, but if it’s so much smarter than us, it would be hard not to see it that way. But on the other hand, it’s filling this massive void in society, at least among most tech people, which is atheistic and non-spiritual and something’s got to fill the gap and maybe it’s this. It’s this incredible sense of mission, purpose, being at a historic moment in this place at this moment, creating this technology.

I don’t think, by the way, that you necessarily have to believe if you believe in super-intelligence that it’s like an extinction event, it’s really different from former things that we’ve built or former new species that have emerged. We get to design it and build it, we can x-ray its brain all the time, we can perform continuous brain surgery on it. There are some important things that are different that I think shouldn’t cause you to automatically believe in the highest risk scenarios, although I don’t think you can totally dismiss them either. The key thing is if it’s like muscle strength, we built machines that are stronger than people or animals and so we should be able to build machines that are smarter too.

*DG:* Just to make the philosophical a little concrete, a reason why I think grasping this is very helpful in forecasting market structure is say even now for taking the task of, “Which AI company will win?”. We’ve now reached the point where the open source, the closed source models, they’re all sort of good enough to the point where picking a favorite is actually a matter of aesthetic preference and made up reasons much more than a practical one. Claude feels better than GPT, GPT may have gotten lazier ( https://x.com/ChatGPTapp/status/1732979491071549792?s=20 ). Why has it gotten lazier? Literally nobody knows as of now.

*(laughing) Because it’s December!*

*DG:* So that theory that you’re talking about, which is it’s gotten lazier because it’s understood that maybe humans work less in December or whatever, I don’t think that theory is correct, but you won’t get thrown out of the room for suggesting it. It may be correct.

*It’s definitely my favorite explanation!*

*DG:* Look, it’s really possible. It reminds me during the heat of the mapping wars, people had all these preference. “I only use Waze” or, “I don’t use Google Maps”, or, “I prefer Apple Maps” and all of the reasons were wrong, and these transformer systems are maybe two orders of magnitude more complex than a deterministic routing system, so I think there’s a view to which these aesthetic preference selections, “Claude feels better”, “ChatGPT was mean to me, “Bard is nice”, that sort of thing is going to matter a lot.

The last time this happened, I think, basically was prior to the Scientific Revolution, and so there’s a way in which we’re basically closing a chapter where we basically built deterministic systems as a society, we reasoned about things very specifically, and we of course decided that worshipping in a sun and a god doesn’t make sense because we derived formulas for how the stars move, and we thought we mastered the universe, but now we’ve created these systems where literally debugging them is a massive effort for hundreds of people over the course of months.

It is still not fully understood what this system can and cannot do and why it’s bad in a month of December, and gosh, this is awfully close to what the world used to be, and so I think this will ultimately drive, a lot of — it’s sort of odd to say — but even a capitalist should be thinking about religious dynamics here, and for example, a kind of priesthood that is the authority that’s responsible for divining which model is working well this week is going to be very important. Meaning the people that assess the quality of the models and rate the quality of the models are going to ultimately be driving a lot of traffic. Again, because it’s not really clear why one model is better than the other, and so it all comes down to who tells you a certain model is better than the other.

*NF:* Yeah, we’re in a weird moment where brand matters a lot for these models.

*DG:* Brand matters.

*NF:* It’s a little difficult to tell like, gosh, the behaviors are complicated, and just a cursory inspection, like which one’s better? It’s not always obvious and so we’re in a strange moment where brand is important, and people are often picking the brand of the model that they think is best, and I think there’s a way in which one of OpenAI’s biggest assets are the brands that it holds. ChatGPT, GPT-4, OpenAI.

*One of the things that you’re making me think about is, I think often some of the most compelling framing in science fiction is not of the actual virtual worlds because it — I’ve written a couple of pieces ( https://stratechery.com/2021/metaverses/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIxL21ldGF2ZXJzZXMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.OdGVutOhyXPQSQAnZ97hytgb0CBHoNXVKjENa-Rz1YKbdZWnDhdZF6MCSBNvLDePs-aEuzRrpJ5bA7ObP0XnJRwoUPb4U-_jBWZeFoEyMLnTLNr_--XpqP1MH7yEK34u0Z2QGIh4n0KtdZhI7SEUcnQTR8EVwengUBsr7C1MejRcrhepufq1-9Fgz8dyxQAO5xLX8szHc2NFtfvKiqxPP1Dsl33H_hlIeswRQdFBaARA0_HgzQJ-SGD8qY9MFXwEsQEIzdFUTuUCtb5Fvl4-y0PKuI9NOKUGCi3335ByFtDerdIKcbyICuhwBswYTw0VKXy1dAsCoLXgBL9Ng1w9Zg ) where the way that virtual reality has been presented I just think doesn’t make sense with the way it’s going to evolve — but what’s much more compelling and interesting is the way that the real world is presented.*

*For example, you depict a Snow Crash-like corporatized world where there’s different places — it kind of ties into Daniel’s bit about brand — brand matters. You mentioned a bit about closing the chapter of this period of human history that stretches 500 years or whatever it is I’ve been on that for a while actually just in the context of the Internet because of the way it has brought the zero marginal cost of producing content to zero ( https://stratechery.com/2022/dall-e-the-metaverse-and-zero-marginal-content/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL2RhbGwtZS10aGUtbWV0YXZlcnNlLWFuZC16ZXJvLW1hcmdpbmFsLWNvbnRlbnQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.ojYm3B1yZly5FjUioRX541yWMCsh2_XnaBKtja85bnfLyIfT07uWigUNcVqRoT5L6RxXH1qQi8QCv7i2CnmOfSKzuq9fmOpW5lwEQ6gEPJU2Bvlyg4uH5EkWOia_LZF33qIHb3hMIOI6PNnAy-2sPQ4FXyrsSFPOlnB5HfP1tt_K-XBQ6Ahf9moQ7CLaBzrIpFkUP6YAhCNVey8islzOZ377UVAw1qIT-TffIBDbQdVRuayvuuXWe82-u3XUpJecUUJhfSBqf0HM6el85jYxpNLyey3tm_uoFtzkLAb0Oic3oVR70016oGLMz2ZyZMKtpyH5P8g2dLA0vlDQNQ9v7g ) , that is going to lead to fragmentation, that’s going to lead to cults, it’s going to lead to all these sorts of more individualized, organized entities with some sort of overarching governance organization that has much less control than we’re used to from nation states today, and it’s like, what was missing from that point that I was making? What was missing was religion. Religion is actually what does organize societies, and there’s an aspect of this talk of AI as the religious components which are inherent to what it might be or might not be, but is also inherent to any technology that humans don’t really understand. I feel like that’s almost the missing component in what I was driving at there.*

*NF:* Yeah, definitely, and there’s a way in which these AIs are the most inscrutable thing we’ve made. We don’t really know quite how they work or what they can do, and they behave in amazing ways.

OpenAI Drama

*Every time you come on here over the last year, we’ve marveled at the developments of AI, but I think what makes this particularly interview momentous, to your point Daniel, you referenced it before, is we’ve progressed from awe at the tech to also gawking at the soap opera ( https://stratechery.com/2023/openais-misalignment-and-microsofts-gain/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL29wZW5haXMtbWlzYWxpZ25tZW50LWFuZC1taWNyb3NvZnRzLWdhaW4vIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.KmqcuMX1dAMiElfb7Atx0880Fxs85_hMVSZDhHx13lalJ2Za8rV03YdlE24mTr-96rJrjHZEzEMe66QNIqHq9Z90Ud5Ttd4x7xZk6CXP5weXBv6rC5li_axm910GKtRwv58RiYtfbIuytn_vl7WBaGQkvOCHNs5bM13W4AAxCzO6D5h7ITECFHlKlvYlnUm0zCuQRShx-YYhJr969IazHfkZaRhL8B9WCm9jlt0WREmW5xRwZSkfwjRO6baxleFwbICJ3tS0qj5Em01r70lasNW6e7ohMKCJMOe_xRqA_lcgeEK2imj4W0EMK0ATupPXMRIoF_BvzYD3cJdDmL_xww ). So what happened with OpenAI?*

*NF:* Well, I think there’s a few lenses you can look at it through. I think one is, and people have discussed a bunch of these.

One is like this ideological lens, technology and progress and capabilities versus safety and caution and a conservative approach, people have talked about that lens. Another might be just governance. You know, you’ve got this interesting structure ( https://openai.com/our-structure ) where you have a nonprofit owning a for-profit, and the duties of the nonprofit board are to foresee or to oversee the nonprofit mission, which is very different from the duties of a for-profit board, which has a fiduciary duty to serve shareholders, and that wasn’t the case in this particular instance, and so I think there’s a governance lens. There’s a human lens too, which is just like, “Hey, did trust just break down between individuals over time?”. I think all those are valid and probably have some important element of truth in them.

The other lens is, sort of what Daniel alluded to earlier, which is, gosh, maybe this was the first skirmish of the coming AI wars, and there’s a way in which AI is intelligence, intelligence is power, and people are just going to fight over that power and the way it shapes the future, and the less you believe in improvement, the less you care about these types of things. Maybe there isn’t such a power struggle if this is just a chatbot and it’s just sort of an auto-correct, a better completion auto-completion for your word processor. But if you think it’s going to get better and better over the next few years and become superhuman then these things really matter, and so your trust issues matter, your governance issues and your nonprofit mission matter, your ideological battles matter a lot more.

So a month on, I guess, that’s the impression I’m left with is this ominous sense that we’re not done, and that unlike prior technology revolutions, we have for example, there’s another thing we can see, which is sovereign nations deciding to invest tens or hundreds of billions of dollars to create their own AIs. You know, we’ve seen the UAE training models ( https://www.axios.com/2023/09/26/uae-disrupt-ai-superpowers ) , there’s talk of the Saudis doing it ( https://www.arabnews.com/node/2425211/business-economy ). You can look at, there’s lots of other, almost every country is in these discussions and talking about national supercomputers to build.

*France has suddenly gotten religion about regulation ( https://www.ft.com/content/9339d104-7b0c-42b8-9316-72226dd4e4c0 ) , now that they have a French company ( https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/10/technology/mistral-ai-funding.html ) , which we’ll get to in a little bit.*

*NF:* Yeah, which has been amazing to watch, the output of the French has been incredible here. The number of French and French-Canadians also who are playing an important role in AI is amazing, but that didn’t happen with mobile phones. You didn’t see the Saudis say, “We need a Saudi mobile phone,” and you didn’t see them say, “We need a Saudi cloud and a Saudi web browser,” it’s happening in this case with AI. It’s because people sense that AI is a source of power in probably prosaic and conventional ways and like non-conventional ways too. So a month on, that’s my impression is that this was foreshadowing of what comes. We can get into all the ins and outs.

*Daniel, what’s your take? A few weeks on from the OpenAI stuff?*

*DG:* Well, I think the question that’s being asked in the situation of OpenAI is not, “Is Sam Altman a competent leader or not?”, it is “Should the standard of the leader of an organization developing AGI be a different standard than your normal CEO standard?”. People can take differing views on that depending on how much they believe this AI thing is going to say on a continuum, just be a really good accelerant, deflationary technology to at the other end of the continuum, something more powerful than the United States of America in a way.

If you’re at the end of that continuum, it’s not clear who actually should have the right to control it but you end up, I think, working yourself into a corner thinking, “Maybe this person is the wrong person”, and I think without saying too much that’s not public, and I don’t know that much that’s not public but if I had to guess, this is really the debate that’s being had behind the scenes, and there’s really many different camps on that. It’s inspiring to see a culture rally behind its leader ( https://www.theverge.com/2023/11/20/23968988/openai-employees-resignation-letter-microsoft-sam-altman ) in that particular way, and I think it’s really interesting to see that, I had not seen something to that effect, in my experience. I think when Steve [Jobs] was fired from Apple, there wasn’t this kind of mutiny. Now, you might argue Twitter makes it possible, right?

*I was going to say, it’s hard to divorce from social media.*

*DG:* But I’m not sure, they were all in an office back then and they could have all just thrown tomatoes at [former Apple CEO John] Sculley, and that would have been the end of it, and they didn’t, and so in a sense it showed how much people at OpenAI have a singular vision of what they want to happen, and I think Nat’s right, this is probably an early warning sign of what’s to come. It would not surprise me if we sit on this podcast a year from today, and we think, “Oh, life was so simple back then, it was just internal fighting within the organization, it wasn’t nation-state involvement. It wasn’t the Fed shows up and pulls the hard drives out of the data center, it’s so much more complicated.”

*We did get Larry Summers ( https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/larry-summers-is-openais-surprise-pick-to-chart-path-forward-bc9708d3 ) , to be fair.*

*DG:* Yeah, that’s true. But if I had to guess, if you just remove all we know about technology and it being a mostly innocuous thing that regulators avoid until a decade into the S Curve cycle, put that aside and you think of a new form of energy really getting created, would regulators want to panic about it and talk about it? And what will those conversations lead to over time? I think it’s pretty straightforward to imagine these sorts of things.

One thing I think will be super interesting that hasn’t been fully discussed I think is unpacking the capital stack of some of these companies in a world where they are national security assets. Who actually owns at the end of the day the equity in some of these companies, and who are they? And are they American citizens? If you want to take a majority position in Raytheon today, sure, it’s how the government needs to know exactly who you are. That is not the case in some of these foundation model companies and if you do take say half the view so it’s not creating a new deity, but it is like a very important foundational technology, I think people will start asking the question of where is the money actually coming from? So I suspect we’re going to start to see more and more, if I had to guess —

*But to that point, the US compelled a Saudi Investment Fund ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-11-30/us-compels-saudi-fund-to-exit-ai-chip-startup-backed-by-altman ) to exit — Sam Altman — one of the other questions is all the other companies he’s involved in that may or may not be trading under the OpenAI name — but one of them was an AI chip startup and CFIUS forced the Saudis out, so I think we’re already starting down that road.*

*DG:* I’m actually an investor in that company ( https://rain.ai/about ) and in that particular case, I think the media story was a little bit overblown. I think Sam invested, I don’t know what, in 2017, ’18, it’s totally disjoint events in history. Now of course there’s a whole media cycle where they’re hunting for these kinds of articles, but it is true that there was forcible divestment from CFIUS there, and that company is an extreme bet on a technology that’s very unproven.

I was very surprised when I saw the news, the founder called me when this happened months ago, and I was extremely surprised to hear the news because what I asked him is, “How do they even understand what a neuromorphic is?” So that provides a lot of information in a way that they’re reading Substacks, they’re finding content of which Wikipedia has none, they’re really at the end of the map. So if they’re able to do that, as sure as heck they’re going to be able to start thinking about, “Well, who actually owns the equity in a company that’s building a foundation model?”

*We’ll come back to the regulator point in a little bit, I think you’re pushing on something interesting. But with the OpenAI drama, Nat, you were at Microsoft when the decision to work with OpenAI was made, so I understand you may be limited in some respect to what you can divulge, but from your perspective, how much of a concern within Microsoft was OpenAI’s corporate structure before this all went down?*

*From the outside it’s like, I knew about it, I didn’t write the huge article, “There’s a Massive Problem”, in retrospect, I wish I would have. I expressed concern, but as more concerned from Altman as some messianic figure, “I don’t need a paycheck” ( https://x.com/unusual_whales/status/1658664383717978112?s=20 ) sort of thing, I’ve always been nervous about folks that are untethered from financial outcomes. I didn’t quite put two and two together as far as the entity as a whole and its partnership with Microsoft. So from your perspective, was that something that was discussed?*

*NF:* It was not discussed very much in the conversations that I was in, and when I actually started working with OpenAI to build GitHub Copilot and got my hands on the agreements and dug into my understanding of OpenAI, I was a little concerned that we were highly dependent in building this. I was CEO of GitHub, I was trying to build a great product, we were dependent on this absolutely critical and amazing technology from OpenAI, and I thought doing anything like that in a vendor relationship or in a partnership like this, you take some risk and so you want to be contractually protected against that risk and so I was a little bit nervous about it myself, and I was surprised at how not nervous others were.

I think, look, they made the right bet in many ways, obviously. I think there was a lot of trust in Sam and I think people really believed that they were investing in OpenAI and this team of incredible researchers, and that Sam was leading the company and had his hand on the tiller and was going to do right by all the stakeholders. I think that was largely the right bet, and I think Sam himself seems to have been very surprised by what happened. I was shocked too when it came out on a Friday. It was like an earthquake, it was incredible. And then I spent the next week totally distracted by the drama.

*(laughing) Along with everybody else, yes. I think I’m still physically recovering, because that was supposed to be my weekend of rest.*

*NF:* Yeah, it was such a shock. And so I do think literally almost everyone, including Sam, underrated this risk, and I think Microsoft did too. I don’t know this, but if you’re Microsoft right now and you believe in AI, whether you believe in it as a normal new technology platform that asymptotes in the next year or two.

*Right. From your perspective, it doesn’t matter, because it’s such a massive business opportunity, even if it doesn’t progress a single bit from now.*

*NF:* Right. If it’s that, if it asymptotes soon, then it’s important for clouds, important for devices, it’s a normal thing. If it’s not, it still matters a lot to you. But the Microsoft OpenAI agreement excludes Microsoft from getting post-AGI technology actually, is my understanding, I think that’s public. Microsoft only gets the pre-AGI stuff, so that’s Microsoft’s bet.

But gosh, they have to be looking at this thinking, “We have a lot of eggs in this OpenAI basket” after this event. You see some of that, you see Microsoft releasing these Phi models ( https://venturebeat.com/ai/microsoft-releases-phi-2-a-small-language-model-ai-that-outperforms-llama-2-mistral-7b/ ) , and I think doing it the in Llama partnership with Meta and other moves like that. I think you’ll see more of that from Microsoft, but I think OpenAI will still be their central AI play and their central bet.

By the way, the other takeaway from this, Satya gets a ton of credit as a strategist, as an inspiring leader that’s transformed culture, and for making big bets, but I think he’s clearly underrated as a tactician. If you just look at the events of that week, he’s an incredibly skilled tactician and the way he was prepared with this precast opportunity for Sam and the team to offer that, I thought that was incredible.

*Well, I think it speaks to the amount of credibility he’s built internal to Microsoft that he could act in that way so quickly. On one hand, he deserves maybe a little bit more of criticism for Microsoft getting in that position, on the other hand, the recovery was excellent. On the other hand, maybe he’s actually even better than we realized by appreciating that he who controls the GPUs controls the world.*

*OpenAI is even more dependent on Microsoft than Microsoft was to OpenAI, and it’d be very curious to pick the minds of everyone involved to know who actually thought this all the way through, because every time you move up a level of abstraction, a different company looks like they did a poor job of thinking this through and when you get to ground truth, Microsoft won that week-long battle. They kept Sam at OpenAI, OpenAI is still dependent on Microsoft, Microsoft has probably more control or at least some more influence and awareness of OpenAI going forward and so maybe he was right all along, I don’t know. It depends the level of abstraction you want to choose.*

*NF:* He was clearly right to aggressively partner with OpenAI in a bet that looked incredibly aggressive to everyone else, and it’s put Microsoft at the forefront of this AI revolution and now he’s got to stay there, and that’s about products and it’s about future partnerships and it’s about in-house efforts and everything that they’re going to do, but I don’t know how he could have played it better until now.

*Daniel, were you going to say something?*

*DG:* Yeah. That weekend proved at the end of the day, regardless of the governance system, the employees are senior to the board and if possible, that the GPUs are senior to the employees, and that is ultimately the power. I think that will get tested in the future.

*That’s not going to be the case necessarily forever.*

OpenAI Past and Future

*A few points on those specific observations. Number one, would OpenAI exist without its corporate structure? I think this is one of the issues you have to explore. I can write an article saying, “This is dumb, a for-profit is actually better for everyone involved” — the whole purpose of money is aligning incentives — it’s an abstraction away from real world goods so we can have much more liquid, much more functioning markets and economies and all these sorts of things, and that applies to governance as well. Money is an abstraction, it’s not a thing, it is a incentive-aligner at scale, but not everyone has actually thought it through to that extent. You’re dealing with a technology that, we talked about at the beginning, is drawing folks that have mystical views tying into the Bay Area’s general religious movements, motivated for things beyond money, all those sorts of things, and would OpenAI have developed the team they did and attracted the talent that they had, particularly in the earlier days, if they had been a different structure?*

*NF:* I think the key thing for OpenAI was probably that they were AGI-pilled before almost anyone else. DeepMind clearly came first, but OpenAI years and years ago was declaring as their mission to create AGI and I think the corporate structure was important, at least to get Elon on board initially. I think it was his idea potentially, initially.

*But the irony of that is Elon leaving was the precipitating event of this entire for-profit structure in Microsoft coming on.*

*NF:* I think the precipitating event was partly Elon leaving and partly realizing that they needed to spend millions and millions of dollars on compute and needed a way to fund that, and so they needed to create, within the nonprofit, a for-profit that could raise that kind of money. Sam designed that nested structure, that was his handiwork, and it worked brilliantly, it worked incredibly well. But I think the original nonprofit structure was probably key to Elon’s participation, and I think Elon’s participation was key to forming OpenAI, and it probably did cement the sense of mission, “We’re not a normal startup”, that was in the air from the beginning.

So I don’t know if you reran the simulation a thousand times and you didn’t do that, how it would work out, but my guess is more conventional fundraising — it’s so strange, OpenAI had a five-year period, six-year period before they hit on this transformer and scaling as the big idea.

*Yeah, GPT-2 I think it was the first one that it’s like, “Whoa, something’s going on here”. That was 2020, I believe, which was a good five years, six years after they started?*

*NF:* Yeah. GPT-3 was 2020 and I think GPT-2 was 2019, if I’m remembering right.

*DG:* It had a four or five-year period where it felt like, “It’s the cold fusion, guys, and it’s a really noble thing to try to shoot for but it’s really too complicated”.

What I don’t know is in the counterfactual run in history. I mean, it is true that the hybrid structure created a new team in the game that was there trying different things, different strategies, different meetings from the ones that are being had at Google and so maybe you get there, but you get there a couple of years later, because the real thing you needed was basically a variety of teams doing different things in AI because what you’re trying to do is pull forward the date that someone takes Noam Shazeer and Ashish Vaswani’s transformer paper ( https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762 ) and tries to scale it up.

I always think in all these technological revolutions, there’s always the question of, “Why didn’t it happen in 2017 or 2018”? There was no material science breakthrough that enabled this suddenly, it was not LK-99 ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LK-99 ) , it’s just that for every moment in history, and maybe there’s some eras where there’s more and some eras where there’s less, the floor is just flooded with gold and you’re waiting for the team to notice and pick it up and take the bet on it.

The miracle of the OpenAI structure for which I think Sam should get a lot of credit for because it made everyone at the right time happy, and I don’t know of many people that could figure that out, did create another team. So maybe in the counterfactual world, Google figures it out, but it takes them five more years.

*And they just don’t have the incentives, as I think it’s clearly demonstrated. They have incentive now and they’re still dragging their feet, it certainly feels from the outside ( https://stratechery.com/2023/google-gemini-performance-infrastructure-and-integration-apple-mlx/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.OInDTtdteFZg_6-WYYJTRJlaHlAlP68ZmyimLELiG-MdEW2TlqnDZykmLcWQemNwkPorxsW8MDGX6crU2qgtJbp4UpUjpvIstgB6tU_ELb8L-1Qxxg6IOSS6rMO8cGN2kFcvSUerMk12u3UA4lOIWFe0inKijTZtATSKTCxTmSK9Vf6wo-vShbYsnHfMdIubudyo_ZYWkCXFuo-dCwwZzDCGBTDoWPoqSyrQNawuPyvLKdvRJxwiA4yWcJRvb0Be8ZFFkI2DqMnwlAUBDYm4mcAuR8blxxTmoadpRQjWIhaK-Bl--PRTnXYUmgPL_mA-N_FIfOJBYDe_bCIJUCgLew ).*

*DG:* They certainly didn’t have the tempo, and OpenAI always had very high tempo and for that, I think the founding team gets a ton of credit for. Its tempo is reflexive, and so the pace of research breakthroughs in AI, it depends on a sliding window of how many research breakthroughs have happened in the past N quarters and so now of course everyone’s excited about AI, and I think why Nat made the point that capitalism/human ingenuity has triangulated on this thing, so it’s just going to work.

The main question that always was the case when I was running AI at Apple, it was not that easy to get the right kind of phenotype excited about it and the right kind of phenotype, by the way, isn’t the pure math Terry Tao researcher type ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terence_Tao ). It is the applied 150-IQ engineer who does want to make stuff at the end of the day, does not want to do research.

*This is how we started this interview series ( https://stratechery.com/2022/an-interview-with-daniel-gross-and-nat-friedman-about-the-democratization-of-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.clkvxkmdMeD2tJjzyq2AyEhFuQOIhSK5z2hP_cX8iN7jCJNPkfUl3MPZ2XLVhgkUgKTgVEW349VVbTDm9dWfWAn8U1g7_vhhZTqUenPHKhAQ1lFzskfyNSwVy1Y_moEMheF4xBolWGUz9M5M2N_IcKtQ3e5h6VLYNrHQuPFH1diWlQC-lcPtwSnujW9sCtlksUVWCcGcdTJeXOhpgeW7cv42HLJ1BrD-11no9gi4RsPGVsuaSf1A11WBVyX-Pcwov0KVB79kVEbKsJ__5jZxjUcrtxSCpDDbcOpb2H2xuh78LikYzCgeQeTexltXGaabrfalVznfm-WdALl5Fj9OAg ) , this was before ChatGPT. It’s like, look, there is this capability out there and no one’s making products, that was the entire impetus.*

*DG:* But those people are only interested in joining the arena if there’s a sense that there’s something on the horizon that’s going to be useful and the miracle of innovation is you end up in these dark ages where something is just — it’s a little bit too far away, and so you don’t get John Carmack ( https://twitter.com/ID_AA_Carmack ) , and you don’t get Greg Brockman ( https://twitter.com/gdb ) because it’s theoretical, it’s maybe the way homomorphic encryption is today, quantum computing. It’s vague, “Why would I work on that?” and that’s what AI was until really GPT-2, I think.

The OpenAI team, I think basically single-handedly — obviously, they’re standing on the shoulders of giants, research is a composite project — but they really changed the mood about this and those talent selection effects are everything and they are senior to who’s getting paid what. It’s a cool thing to work on because you can make cool stuff out of it. Once you have that effect, you start finding the expert.

*That’s a really good observation. Just a couple of practical questions. You guys work with a bunch of startups, is there any increased unease about building on the OpenAI API after this happened or has everyone just brushed it off and moved on?*

*NF:* I think people have mostly brushed it off, but there’s a lot more competitive options, I feel that’s been a bigger change for startups. Mistral’s new model, the MoE 8x7B model ( https://mistral.ai/news/mixtral-of-experts/ ) , people are very excited about using that and they’re trying it out and they like controlling their destiny. I think people will try the Gemini models, they just released the pricing for Gemini Pro today and it’s on par with GPT-3.5. If Ultra comes out and is really competitive, people will try that. But no, I don’t think the governance is — there was a week there where people were worried and they were thinking, “Maybe we can’t count on this.”

*Is it potentially a bigger issue with larger enterprises? As an observer and enjoyer of the soap opera that is tech, I enjoyed Andy Jassy being on stage at AWS ( https://stratechery.com/2023/awsreinvent-serverless-and-the-smiling-curve-ai-services/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2F3c3JlaW52ZW50LXNlcnZlcmxlc3MtYW5kLXRoZS1zbWlsaW5nLWN1cnZlLWFpLXNlcnZpY2VzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA1MTQ1NDkzLCJpYXQiOjE3MDI1NTM0OTMsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.NfkhBGu9AcsVjM8URfPgXjaFDmheCOyd8c22Yo5t9VwMNSPQUy-bIHjQH2L61kmMkOSTBizBVOxVNC1voKM1MCpI0B2NMpJEO5tBUQbr--e1zzZucK92N7Rou3L1TG-DTXCtV-1-f5BZkQHFBn3SY4B28VV5fBk8ZMbUeghx_WsoaR538Fo0fBd61DRjpuHfKBcuXaI3YRNFEaPprpHgFCmxWvbTWyqbu44hX2sWVw792lLzhXgATybjHmV1VMftFLCeit1xMc0QoXiW_bIfsUIxEuOOqdEYVJ0Pfjlp4y7ex7YRWbHXzpGhrBrDNNZRpvH5TvXzstchcSXBFVdysw ) , just taking very explicit potshots at Microsoft saying, “Why do you want to depend on or trust this company?” And the real beneficiary, it seems to me, ought to be Google, “We control everything from top to bottom. You can depend on trust on us.” They have their own issues, but do you think that is going to resonate or do you just not have too much visibility into the larger enterprise?*

*NF:* I think it may, if there’s another hiccup, then it definitely will. It’s interesting, you look at the top two independent AI labs until now, they’ve been OpenAI and Anthropic and they both have unique governance mechanisms. OpenAI has their nested nonprofit for-profit structure, Anthropic is a normal corporation but with a long-term benefit trust, which over time, elects more and more of the board of directors. And that’s happening soon, over the next several years. The LTBT is going to be electing those.

*And it’s technically a B-Corp versus a C-corp, which functionally really works the same, but it changes the fiduciary duty aspects of the board.*

*NF:* That’s right, they have a charter statement that they won’t always pursue fiduciary duty if it conflicts with their objectives or their mission. But I think we will now see more normal corporations taking this on. Daniel mentioned at the beginning of the conversation, Nvidia is hiring great people and I think if you were to make a 2024 prediction, it might include that Nvidia will release some open source models.

Nvidia and Mistral

*Let’s talk about Nvidia because we talked about the fact that GPUs run the world, and I’m actually completely with you. So, what has been incredible to me over the last nine months is Nvidia had their conference in the spring and [Nvidia CEO] Jensen [Huang] announces the DGX Cloud ( https://stratechery.com/2023/nvidia-gtc-dgx-cloud-nvidias-partners/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL252aWRpYS1ndGMtZGd4LWNsb3VkLW52aWRpYXMtcGFydG5lcnMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.dteLr1xPC7we-CZNPO_l6lk3-WIpM-pfFSdEDuVbv6VawW2R7CPWkYxIxBjrVjtG2axVwPlxPKIh4v6TkuaYgtYOpuIjKZ31VX2KBA5I1FlCac6VcOBT31Ss2h6eIx3e1S7oec-h5iCQeHGi6uKrAqQ9Kc5vLEKUwS-2RRQUCPVAL-FDCsy9X-CDrkkhxNrSlRyiGtx47Um7aYiWMsNcyixCDRpIwS6lK4SUagOWMjBaJ4AKDGpDx585HWWkeWQAukUz83ldDqlDArZZxfSB1RKUIZDLidk7k2vslsm4rbF4G0KeF6TGu2Xm8qR_4Bc8RNmDM7Hn9WLVORcvcOI7Lw ). But what’s interesting is he’s like, “We’re not going to build any of it, it’s going to all run on the other clouds”, and they launch with Oracle as their partner and I’m like, “Oh, that makes sense.” What does Oracle really have going for them as far as attracting broader cloud business? Now they get to ride along on the Nvidia brand name.*

*Fast-forward nine months and DGX is on Azure, it’s on AWS, and it’s on Google Cloud, they are basically hosting it. They’re running all the infrastructure for a cloud service that you log into in Nvidia Portal, it is branded Nvidia, it’s Nvidia stuff, all this sort of thing and my suspicion, looking from the outside, is if you want GPUs, you’re going to host DGX Cloud and this seems to have them pretty well positioned for this large enterprise marketplace. The analogy I go back to is Intel. What’s the one Intel business that has persevered through all their struggles? It’s hosted data centers for big corporations in the government because once you’re on the standard, you’re not going to change it over time. That feels like if you have someone nervous about OpenAI or nervous about Anthropic or whatever it might be, look, Nvidia has a solution for you and you’ll probably be a customer for life.*

*DG:* I think one important thing, we were talking earlier about whether the OpenAI drama caused a scare or not, and I sort of agree that this current drama didn’t cause a scare. The deeper issue that OpenAI has, and I’ll connect this to Nvidia in a minute, is that adopting AI is a very unclear coupling point at the end of the day, and there effectively are three kinds of companies and you can imagine them on a continuum.

At the extreme, you have your Fortune 500, DuPont, Chevron, Coke, whatever. These people, I think, are just likely to buy directly from Azure. They want a simple solution, and the good news is they’ll pass margin definitely because for them, AI is a very big complicated thing. The bad news is they’re probably not going to pick OpenAI’s platform over Azure. I’m sure in the margin, there’ll be ones that do, but for the most part, you’re already using Azure, you got your Microsoft Master Services Agreement, why not just chuck this in?

At the other end of the continuum, you have these startups building the new economy that will be run on AI. A lot of these companies sometimes building generative media companies, generating videos, generating images, sound, music, all those people are not going to pass margin to OpenAI, they’re abusive customers in a way, they’re fine-tuning their own models. It’s not out of a fear that the OpenAI thing is unstable.

*Their whole point is to optimize and have high capabilities so it’s a trivial sort of work for them.*

*DG:* Exactly, it’s trivial lift and it’s fun, it’s exciting, I think we really underestimate this in competitive dynamics. These people want to work on that problem, so they’re not going to pass margin. I think they’re not going to be great customers that’ll pass margin and in the middle, you do get some of OpenAI’s customers, which are the late-stage cool tech startups, your $10 billion private company thing and those people are using OpenAI because they’re hybrid.

So if we take this framework of you want to create a product where your customers are going to pass margin to you because you’re selling them a higher abstraction coupling point, I think Nvidia strategy makes a lot of sense, because if you’re running a sales team and you’re just selling a cloud, boy, you have a much easier job than you’re selling GPUs. The people who are buying GPUs are sharp and they want to optimize the crap out of you, and they know a lot about how the GPU works, so you’re not actually creating that much value in that sense and you have these very adversarial customer dynamics. Everyone buying GPUs today is thinking, “How much margin am I passing to Nvidia?” Blog posts titled, “The Nvidia Tax”, this is not a great thing. Boy, it’d be great if you’re Nvidia if you can just—

*Let me build up an entire framework that will let me use AMD or let me use my own chips or whatever it might be.*

*DG:* And they’re excited to do that. The cloud is such a vague, globby thing.

*NF:* I think he’s totally right, this is exactly true. I also see Nvidia’s behavior work of them seeking out margin wherever it is and trying to grab it, so they’ve done this with DGX and HGX, they’ve done this now with the cloud, and I think they’ll do it with the foundation models too, this would be my prediction.

So they certainly have the capability internally, they have the FLOPs to train great foundation models so I think why wouldn’t they offer foundation models, foundation model fine-tuning, foundation model inference hosting, all on DGX Cloud? It just makes sense and I think there’s a world in which the foundation model business is a lot like the airline business where you just have not one or two, but five, six, or seven competitors, they chase a lot of the margin out of the business because they’re all neck-and-neck with each other, it’s very heavy CapEx.

If you don’t have someone discover major new breakthroughs that they’re able to keep secret, then you have relatively low differentiation and it becomes a cloud feature essentially, or a device feature, and it just is about your applications or your customer ownership in the end and I think that’s a plausible world, absent breakthroughs at OpenAI or somewhere else that make their models just much, much better than anyone else’s.

*Now, this goes back to the question of progress and what’s been happening. It feels like the story of the last six months is these open source models, you had Facebook with Llama, you have Mistral coming out of nowhere. Tell me about Mistral. On one hand because they’re open source, they’re kind of this scrappy new company. On the other hand, they have raised billions of dollars ( https://techcrunch.com/2023/12/11/mistral-ai-a-paris-based-openai-rival-closed-its-415-million-funding-round/ ) , this is not some fly-by-night outfit. Who are these guys? Where do they come from?*

*DG:* I think on the second podcast appearance that we had with you, we talked about the unreasonable effectiveness of fine-tuning data and we brought up a model called FLAN-T5 ( https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/flan-t5 ) , which is a fine-tune of a Google model called T5, and I believe it was something like 1,800 or 2,900 examples, improved model performance by something like 20 and 30% and we use that as a way to make the case that there, “May be a lot of room at the bottom”, to quote Richard Feynman ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There%27s_Plenty_of_Room_at_the_Bottom ) and making high-quality models may be a little bit simpler than it seems. And Mistral is an example of that.

*So for the record, I did not mispronounce that, I just did not know how to pronounce that. So Mistral, there you go. Good to know.*

*DG:* It’s French. It’s a good example of that theory in action. It’s a team of, well, three co-founders at this point, I’m sure there’s a larger team of folks who are in Paris who are obsessed with the cleanliness and the quality of their data and who are very focused on initially trying to make the best model they could for the given size. And they did the thing, by the way, that sometimes I feel American cultures are unable to do, but European cultures are much better at, which is really slaving over the fine details and occasionally, the low-status tasks. It’s the French restaurant that will spend hours shaving the cucumber peels or whatever so it’s just perfect. Whereas here in the United States, we wanted to just put everything in a blender.

*Efficiency.*

*DG:* Yeah, exactly, and they were able to do that and they were able to do this low-status task of data curation extremely well and the result of that were these models that they’ve open sourced that are extremely good given their size.

So they started out by open sourcing a 7B model, which was better at some benchmarks and also anecdotal usage than the best open source model in the world at that time, which was developed by Meta and then a week ago at this point, they open sourced a MoE mixture of experts variant of that model, and maybe Nat can walk us through a second what MoE actually is, it’s quite nifty. That model basically seems to be a GPT-3.5 quality and they managed to do this with a fraction of the budget of OpenAI has, with a fraction of the team.

*It’s open source and is really small for what it is.*

*DG:* Look, there’s a whole other thing we can touch on it in a minute in, “Where does this go from here?”, because we’re clearly not at the bottom yet, and maybe all of this stuff ultimately runs on your phone, but they’ve proved, basically, that really high-quality data is extremely important for making models very good. Nat, I don’t know if you have any more color on that.

*NF:* Yeah, I agree with everything you said. I think in a way they’re democratizing the best-known techniques inside of the labs that they came from. There’s a team of folks from Meta and from Google and the company is not old. The company is what, six or seven months old, Arthur Mensch ( https://twitter.com/arthurmensch ) , the CEO, he was at Google at DeepMind and I think he was probably familiar with or working on Gemini up until he left.

So this was a team that was at the cutting edge at the frontier of understanding the best practices of building great transformer models and they’re taking those practices, which include, as Daniel said, clean data and now MoE, and they’re open-sourcing them, essentially, for everyone and I think there’s a way in which it’s just always more expensive to be at the frontier and push the frontier than to catch up to the frontier and Mistral is running the fast follower play where for much less money, they can catch up. I think MoE has been a part of OpenAI’s moat, in a sense, until now where the OpenAI models GPT-4 is an MoE model. It enables a lot more compute efficiency.

*I am following up on Daniel’s call for you to explain MoE to the audience.*

*NF:* Right. Okay, so MoE stands for Mixture of Experts and the basic idea is that you take your model, and a neural network model has a bunch of layers in it and as you do the inference to compute the next token, the next word, you pass through each of the layers in sequence and in a normal model, a so-called dense model, you just pass through the same layers every single time.

In an MoE model, at each layer, you might have, say, eight copies of that layer, and each of those is called an expert, essentially. At each layer, you have a little router which makes a decision as to which expert to choose for this particular token that’s going to be generated and that router will pick one or two of those experts. It’ll pass its feed forward to those experts, they’ll compute their result.

If it’s a top one MoE model, it’ll pick one of those and pass that forward to the next layer. If it’s top two, you can average them and pass them through and what it means is that on a per-token basis, you’re actually picking different sub-pieces of the network that you’re using.

*So it’s increasing parallelism.*

*DG:* It’s increasing expressivity, in a way.

*NF:* You can stupidly think about this as like, “Oh, I’ve got a part of the model that’s very good at grammar or I’ve got a part of the model that’s very good at code. So if I know that I’m writing code at this part, or if I’m writing Python in particular, these are the layers to choose.” This happens in every layer, so if you have 50 layers in your network, you’re actually picking a different expert 50 times as you pass through. It’s not that there’s five experts, “Here’s the Python expert”, and “Here’s the poetry expert”, and I’ll call on them in turn for each word, but this happens at every token as well. So you can kind of pick the subset of the network that are experts at each of these tokens.

It’s more difficult to train. In particular, MoE seems to be much easier to train on Nvidia than on TPU. We can get into why if you’re interested, but it has to do with the networking architectures of Nvidia training clusters versus TPU training clusters, and then it’s a little more complicated to inference if you’re load balancing a lot of requests because you have to load balance across the experts, or you can have some kind of bottlenecking that occurs in the network.

But what has been observed is that the models are smarter for the same compute training cost because you can have some kind of specialization that occurs inside of the model and there’s rumors because of TPU and TPU really only being best at training-dense models, that Google is actually starting to see some asymptoting in the loss curves in their largest models, which are not being seen outside of Google. Now, I don’t know if these rumors are true or not, I haven’t seen any internal Google docs.

*One of the most striking things about the Gemini announcement is that it was completely trained and will inference on TPU because there are no GPUs involved. On one hand, you can understand why this would be possible, why they can pull this out, a TPU is significantly simpler than a GPU, it’s really fine-tuned to the core calculation that’s happening. On one hand, you can see one why that could scale better, and they’re scaling this not just within a data center, they’re scaling it across data centers, which is pretty remarkable. On the other hand, the risk that’s always been the case with ASICs in general and specialized chips is some new software will come along that requires some additional amount of flexibility and then you’re stuck and the fact that this might be happening, I think it’s a pretty huge deal.*

*NF:* This is not a certainty for me. I think maybe one or two podcasts ago we were talking about what a huge advantage TPU was for Google because they have their own ability to allocate and generate compute, I still think that’s probably true, but if the MoE architecture is important, so the TPU, the way it works in the networking part of the TPU is that it’s a mesh network. Every TPU node is connected to six other nodes and those are in turn connected to six other nodes so you don’t have the point-to-point ability to route from any given GPU to any other given GPU in the training cluster and that’s normally fine if you’re doing these big distributed training runs.

*Actually, it’s an asset if you want to sort of scale indefinitely. Routing is complicated and an overhead, but if you actually need it, it’s pretty nice to have.*

*NF:* Yeah, it’s lot cheaper. You don’t have to build these gigantic InfiniBand networks ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/InfiniBand ) with multi-layer switches, extremely expensive switching, and networking, that’s a hard thing to do. But in the case of MoE models, because you’re picking a different path through the network every time, the all-reduce step has to reduce across a disjointed set of nodes every time and those nodes may not be connected to each other, so they may have to pass through other nodes in the network to mesh to where they need to go, and you can end up with hotspots and bottlenecks as a result.

*This is why I’ve been, one of the reasons, to be bullish about Nvidia, broadly speaking. I think you’re touching on two points. Number one is you want to go the ASICs route once you know explicitly what you’re building, that you’re going to be building for a very long time, and the reason why Google had TPUs is because they were far ahead in machine learning and they knew exactly what they were doing and what they needed to build those TPUs for. Of course, they’re going to alter them over time, but they did lock into an architecture and if we’re still in relatively early days from a software development perspective, overspecialization is going to be a straitjacket, that’s number one.*

*But then number two to this point, Nvidia is much more than a GPU company, they have massive investments in routing, they have massive investments in the NVLink and the ethernet stuff that they’ve done and all these ability to tie their different pieces together at a higher level of abstraction. Whereas AMD, for example, they’re just GPUs and it’s on the vendor to figure out how to tie that together, it’s not built into the core like it is for Nvidia. It feels like Nvidia is in the sweet spot where they’re at the right level of abstraction to maintain flexibility, but also to get scalability with that flexibility and that is a foundation of an advantage that I think is larger than CUDA because it is multiple hardware pieces that go together to make this happen.*

*NF:* Yeah, I think that’s right. Now, some of these things only show up at massive scale, so you have to be operating at different scales before you care about this issue.

*Inference is a different question. That’s right, yeah.*

*Actually, I just said something assertively and I want to see if it’s right. Does all the things you’re talking about, how much does that matter for training versus inference?*

*NF:* It’s training, everything I’m talking about is a training issue primarily. The largest models are inferenced across multiple GPUs, so I don’t know how many GPT-4 is inferenced across, but it’s probably, I don’t know, 24 to 40, something like that. So you can in a mesh network, interconnect those tightly enough to inference across them. At training, and especially frontier training where you have tens of thousands of chips interconnected, the stuff that I was talking about, like the particular networking architecture really matters.

Now, I want to be clear, I think Gemini Ultra appears to be GPT-4 level, and maybe it’s slightly better, maybe it’s slightly worse. My bet is it’s just slightly better than GPT-4 as we know it so Google achieved that even with this networking disadvantage and the requirement that they use a dense model, which is an effective compute multiplier for OpenAI, the fact that they were able to train MoE with so-called sparsity gives them a multiplier on every dollar they spend on compute.

*Google could just brute force this, they’ve been known to do that in the past.*

*NF:* Exactly. Even though they may have to brute force it, they’ll just spend four times more in compute and if they can get the allocations then they can do it.

Google and Apple

*Speaking of Google, is the Gemini launch a case of, “Okay, all’s well that ends well”? They’re in the game here, I think we’re touching on one of the big questions is if TPUs are good enough in the very long run, they have a really foundational, structural advantage because you mentioned they can spend four times on compute. Well, that’s actually the same amount because they’re paying a quarter as much, or actually probably significantly less than that for their compute capacity. Is that going to matter? Will they be able to make this pitch? Are they going to actually start getting cloud customers because, “Look, you come here, we have the whole models, it’s tuned to our infrastructure, you can depend on us.” It does feel like the cloud opportunity is the larger one for them in the short term. I don’t know, it’s hard to get a grasp on where they are and what they’re doing. On one hand, everything seems fine. On the other hand, it just feels like this malaise. They have this fake demo, what’s going on?*

*DG:* I think if there’s a question of whether Google can pull it off, I think we should assume that the answer is yes. They have the talent, they have the data, and they have the compute. Those are the three things you need really in AI, and they have all three. In fact, they have much more data than any other company on the planet, and they can train on your Gmail, it is really an unbelievable resource, so I’m sure they’ll figure it out. They may bumble their way getting there, but I’m sure they’ll figure it out.

I think the real question for them is around the product, not around the capability, because they do have obviously a disruptive issue in the sense that if there’s no ten blue links then there’s no ads. You can make money, some of us have executive assistants that don’t present a bevy of options to us, they provide us with one option and we pay them for that. So you can make money in a world where you provide agents instead of search results, but this is a typical disruptive moment.

So to me, yeah, does Google figure out how to master AI in the infrastructure side? Feels pretty obvious, they’ll figure it out, it’s not that hard. The deeper question is, on the much higher margin presumably, consumer angle, do they just cede too much ground to startups, Perplexity or ChatGPT or others? I don’t know what the answer is there and forecasting that answer is a little bit hard because it probably literally depends on three or four people at Google and whether they want to take the risk and do it.

We definitively know that if the founders weren’t in the story, we could not definitively, but forecast with pretty good odds that it would just run its course and it would gradually lose market share over time and we’d all sail into a world of agents. However, we saw Sergey Brin as an individual contributor on the Gemini paper and we have friends that work on Gemini and they say that’s not a joke, he is involved day-to-day. He has a tremendous amount of influence, power, and control over Google so if he’s staring at that, together with his co-founder, I do think they could overnight kill a lot of startups, really damage ChatGPT, and just build a great product, but that requires a moment of foundation and founding.

It’s possible, it’s just hard to forecast if they will do it or not. In my head, that is the main question that matters in terms of whether Google adds or loses a zero. I think they’ll build the capability, there’s no doubt about it.

*NF:* Yeah, I totally agree. They’re going to build it and it’ll just be relentless. They will just keep pounding it with compute and project managers and product managers and researchers, and we just have seen V1 so far. So look, the Gemini video was clearly a mistake, that was an own goal, but I also think it’s not far off from reality. If you told me that in March Gemini demoed that live and it worked and I could try it, I wouldn’t be that surprised, I don’t think it’s that far off.

*They have the position, thanks to Android, to actually expose that. I found just ChatGPT’s voice interaction pretty remarkable ( https://stratechery.com/2023/ai-hardware-and-virtual-reality/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FpLWhhcmR3YXJlLWFuZC12aXJ0dWFsLXJlYWxpdHkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.CrMixMAd-po7D_8kjfFh5s5CdOHkCGzA27mkgZWVCnwnrJcB9lalwvbhIAAydY-3GOVvBKoTaB4m2irDPc6VbGrBm2TEJPdO01ZiCopfddTI7PmrhinwMlmsXWtBzfzsEI1DbbZD34P1srQKinm_lj6fS4j5DJ9BdOaio8Kheo1221v54tIfPWkWyDjK_KgwhWkP9VCZISCt3HehaCaWnXvlLq-PKdElOcrk8uPGnuItkNhTYgc-FffMxuI_cAqU72Y7r94FnBTKTZuLlPf5NmnzWPFbpmPiKlgmCC-Qc4uZm-1YUaO7aTY7NErzzHNsI7Xv6MKd5GIu806CJLKSbg ) , and I think, to me, one of the more moving demos, I put it up there with Sydney ( https://stratechery.com/2023/from-bing-to-sydney-search-as-distraction-sentient-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2Zyb20tYmluZy10by1zeWRuZXktc2VhcmNoLWFzLWRpc3RyYWN0aW9uLXNlbnRpZW50LWFpLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzA1MTQ1NDkzLCJpYXQiOjE3MDI1NTM0OTMsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.wIiqWxP-nix4xV7YjbP5fqqT4Zi3Jdmg0lSMq1y9JZg7pWM2XxQ3J8EtPX6LI7yGvxAGxSW4bl-elgvIjg1tL4ZIH12HPSMQVsSqIjmfTDOEykQ7_7J-uPQAwfGRZ_EH1T0Cu6shSvS4bNJK-i8PLJSPmUZT-P55znX5tTwS7_PU-yU77E_aMCNaVztXL9bW3g6C5m2sL5tj5JaLn-pG9G3sSmJRmwvmx4B0Yktt9-LxEN-Ku8WQBua6eX8s_KFwGOtGxwCCVUatoH4E-u9341O2ZtpBas6OBOjvHFjAuQyadEuQ9sARLsVgcy4BEDnL91lOz_jtnX_5VF_MjVEZlg ) , it’s like watching a movie. If you can let go of reality just for a moment and be in that moment, it felt interactive, I felt engaged in a way I don’t when I’m reading a whole block of text and going back and forth having to type it out. That removal of friction was remarkable, but the problem is it took so many steps to get to that point and then it only worked sometimes. This whole issue of the hardware layer and actually being able to make that frictionless, Google is well positioned there.*

*NF:* Daniel listed the three key ingredients. The fourth is what you said, it’s distribution and they have so many great points of distribution between G Suite, Gmail, Google itself, Android, YouTube. It’s incredible, so they’ll definitely get it out there.

*Google Home devices, I think, underrated in this regard.*

*NF:* Yeah, definitely. It’s not critical that Google performs well in the next six months. It’s enough for someone else to perform well for the level of emergency to rise enough for Google to make whatever changes are necessary for them to start performing well. So I think one of my 2024 questions is, “Who gets to 10 billion in AI revenue first?” Is that Microsoft 365 Copilot? Is it OpenAI? Is it no one? If somebody does, and maybe it’s in 18 months, not 12 months, that’ll light a huge fire under Google whether they’re on track or not. So I think it’s inevitable they get there. As Daniel said, Sergey being in the picture is a big positive sign too.

*Maybe there’s an aspect where they are able to hold onto search. It will inevitably fade, but they don’t have to destroy the product because I’m not clear that search is the best point for a generative AI experience anyway. There’s all this drive to fix hallucinations, fix hallucinations, fix hallucinations. My point all along has been actually it’s the hallucinations that are the magic here, that’s what we’ve never gotten from computing before. That’s what makes it compelling that I could actually have a conversation because of the creative aspect because we’re consistently trying to put it in the framework of what exists now, we see it as a problem when the products that actually explode and make a huge difference they wouldn’t be possible without hallucinatory capabilities. Not that they’re going to hallucinate nonstop, but the foundational principles that drive it is what actually is going to matter.*

*DG:* Yeah. Hallucinations are part of the feature, it is constantly hallucinating, that is all the model really understands.

*Right. It’s just hallucinating correctly most of the time, that’s the magic of it.*

*We’ve gone a little long, but to have to always ask where’s Apple? They obviously have the phone, they release this new framework ( https://www.computerworld.com/article/3711408/apple-launches-mlx-machine-learning-framework-for-apple-silicon.html ) that weirdly — everyone is already using PyTorch, this is like a PyTorch drop-in replacement, but I guess they’re counting on they have so much distribution that developers will adopt it or maybe they’re hoping it’ll be folded into PyTorch. What’s going on here?*

*DG:* Well, to take a step back, I think most of the conversations people have do not require that many FLOPS. Most of the conversations people have require very few FLOPS like this conversation, it’s possible that a 7B model could just handle it, maybe most people would be fine with a 3B model. If most of human chit-chat is just very minimally energy and compute intensive, it will ultimately move to the device.

I think high-IQ, high-value tokens will probably always be emitted by these massive data centers that consume a ton of power. I really struggle to see a future where, with one exception that’ll note, where for the casual chit-chit, “Hey, good morning”, “How are you?”, which is a huge fraction of the usage of these language models today. Companionship and all that, it seems like that should remain on the device.

The exception to this rule would be if someone created a network effect, where it was somehow beneficial for the bots to be talking to the other bots on the Internet. Barring that, I think it all will move to the device. I’ve mentioned this since our first podcast, I think Apple will play a very important role here.

Apple has the issue organizationally of being too early to this problem. Those famous interviews with Steve Jobs sitting on the red chair at All Things D and Walt Mossberg says, “Siri was about search, right?” Steve looks at him with this very bold cold stare and he says, “ No, Siri is about AI ( https://www.macrumors.com/2010/06/01/steve-jobs-on-siri-acquired-for-artificial-intelligence-technology-not-search/ ).” This is 2010, 2011 maybe. Obviously, it’s taken over a decade for that vision to come true, but it’s very possible now. So it’ll take them a while I think to get it right, because they have to cycle through just a lot of old infrastructure and organizations, but I think they could get there.

*They’ve added a lot of functionality to Siri that is mostly poorly implemented, but the question is, “Are you going to just rip that all out and start fresh and degrade things that people may be used to and counting on?” This is the challenge of having a billion person user base.*

*DG:* Yeah, especially if you’re Apple. It’s the challenge of, and this is always going to be the knock.

*Apple’s stuck on backwards compatibility! Who knew?*

*DG:* Exactly. Well, they’re stuck on status and they provide luxury and high quality products, and so it’s difficult to degrade the experience. So you end up in a dynamic which is not too dissimilar to some of these training firms, which is black box experiences are really scary. If the cost of making a mistake is high and the cost for making a mistake for Apple’s brand, it’s extremely high, but they’ll figure that out. There are already ways, as we have learned, to make the models not say things and to lobotomize them. Everyone I know at Apple that was in this area, and I used to run machine learning there across the company, is very much all in on this.

So the other thing that I think is interesting is just providing foundation models in a mobile phone fully quantized ready to go by default for other developers to use, not just Siri. We happen to be co-owners of this business called GGML ( https://ggml.ai/ ) , which I learned recently is now embedded on every, I think Pixel 8 phone. It’s open source, and so you could see all the open source packages there and that company is now a significant aspect of, I guess, a billion phones that will ship over the next year. What it does is it enables you to run these cutting-edge models from companies like we mentioned like Mistral at the edge. So it’s sort of a CUDA alternative that can run on low-end hardware like MacBook Pros, relatively low-end hardware that is, like a MacBook Pro or a Pixel phone. I think if I had to guess, Apple will do something like that that’s theirs or use GGML, and just be like there’s a system-wide service for push notifications on iOS, there’ll be a system-wide service for machine learning and AI prompts.

*Right. So you don’t have to get an app and then download five gigabytes of something. Will open source be enough for Apple or do they need their own foundational model?*

*DG:* I think they of course will make their own foundation model, but it’s just not for the tasks of Siri. Making a foundation model is just not that expensive, especially for Apple, but even for non-Apple people. If it’s $50 million or a $100 million dollars to make something that can run your phone and do basic chit-chat, it’s a no-brainer for them, let alone a billion.

The interesting thing about Apple, and I’ll advance my theorizing about them now, because I think that on-device models are priced in, I think the thing that’s not priced in is if there is a race for super-intelligence. So fast forward a year from now, we make a couple of breakthroughs and become really compute-driven. Again, I think today we’re maybe data quality-driven, but suppose become really compute-driven again. There’s one company in the world that has over a hundred billion of cash, the ordering ability to exceed Nvidia’s orders at TSMC, so they’re only person ahead of Nvidia at TSMC and just a tremendous amount of hardware engineering talent, it is Apple.

I was always told when I worked there that you play in the fourth quarter of the game, so it wouldn’t surprise me if they take their time. I think even in a mode where we switch to some takeoff, “Who can spend the most money to build the best foundational model for physics or understanding the universe or doing drug discovery?”, I don’t know. It may be that Tim Cook decides not to take that risk, but the company has the capability to do that if it wants to.

*So Apple’s buying Nvidia, you heard it here first.*

*DG:* That I don’t know, but again, they can fab their own chips if they need to, server chips that is.

*Isn’t it the talent question then? You put that ranking before of employees are over the board, GPUs are over the employees, you’re making the case that money is over the GPUs, but will that actually play out that way?*

*DG:* I don’t know, it’s an interesting thought experiment, Apple’s notorious for not wanting to pay people top dollar compared to Google. Certainly not OpenAI, but if you run the thought experiment of say they have a million fully interconnected GPU clusters and they call a researcher from OpenAI and they say, “We’ll pay you half the salary, but you get to work with the best equipment in mankind, you get to work on the Sphinx in the Egyptian empire.” I think people would be enticed by that.

So I think they’ll have a very significant role to play and the good news for them is they don’t really have to decide now. They could let all these apps run free on their ecosystem, they have us all captive, we’ll still buy the next iPhone. Again, I’d start paying attention in the fourth quarter of the game.

2024

*Well, it’ll be interesting to see, I feel like we’ve come full circle over the last year. I think the rise of the edge, data quality, is all very interesting, I can imagine cycling around again, but are there any other — oh, we didn’t get to the regulation question I guess. It’s still unclear what’s going to happen in the EU, I think it was over-reported what has been agreed to to-date ( https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/08/technology/eu-ai-act-regulation.html ). The French government now, thanks to Mistral, is raising concerns.*

*For 2024, are there any other predictions or does it feel like this is a space where do you feel like your 2023 predictions turned out how you thought they would or has it been different?*

*NF:* Well, there was a few things I was waiting for that didn’t quite happen. I think we got part of the way there on natural, conversational AI. You mentioned the OpenAI voice mode, which it’s not totally natural, but it really gives you a taste of what I think it will be.

*Yeah, it’s a taste. It’s not there yet.*

*NF:* The latency’s too high, the outputs are too textual. It starts reciting bullet points instead of talking to a human being, but it’ll definitely get there. If you saw the Air AI demo ( https://youtu.be/1mP5e5-dujg?si=l6MFSqXGXUGuhUZA ) , I thought that was impressive. If you’ve seen ElevenLabs, some of their stuff recently, it’s clear the pieces are there, so hopefully next year.

I think the next thing I’m waiting to see is we’ve been in this Copilot era. I guess where you have a human in the loop, and I think the Copilot era continues, when do we enter a virtual employee or agent era where these things can make use of tools and can complete reliably like multiple steps in a row. Maybe it’s computer use with a browser, maybe it’s APIs, maybe they select plugins from an app store and use them.

*Is there reason to believe that is very close? Because that’s the big question though, right? It’s incredible the capabilities that LLMs do have, but you still need to direct them. This initiative is still lacking and that is obviously a very important question in the long run.*

*NF:* The question is how reliable they are and if you need a human overseeing how many of their steps, what can they do without supervision? I think the two missing pieces there, one is data. Most people just have not created large training data sets for a computer using agent, they’re trying to do it through prompting and tweaks and hacks. What we’ve learned from ML and from this era of AI is that data is king so you need a lot of training data, you need a hundred thousand tasks, a million tasks completed with all the clicks and types and scrolls.

*I’m reminded of Daniel’s observation very early on that the problem is there may be a lot of data on the Internet, but all that data is absent all the thought that went into the creation of that data. It’s just the end stage.*

*NF:* Yeah, I think that’s right. I think you can go really far with recordings, and so I don’t think we’ve seen this yet, there’s a few people who have started to do this, but has someone constructed a $20 million data set of recorded browser or computer use and trained on that and just see how much reliability you can get out of that for say a set of 1,000 common task categories or something like that. I don’t think we’ve seen it, I think we will next year, it’ll be interesting to see how far it goes.

We’ll combine that with the next level of scale, we’ll see the GPT-5 scale model or whatever succeeds Gemini happen probably Q3, Q4 next year. So will the combination of those things take us out of the human supervised Copilot era into an era of a virtual employee who can maybe complete some assistant tasks for you? Will Facebook’s M ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M_(virtual_assistant) ) vision start to re-emerge? There’s a lot of active work happening in this era. So I think that’s a question to watch.

Then I mentioned earlier, does somebody get to $10 billion? I think it’s very interesting and important question. If Microsoft 365 Copilot gets there next year or some bundle of Microsoft AI products gets there, I think it’ll really ignite a fire under anyone who isn’t fully in the game yet and my bet is that it happens within 12 or 18 months, so I think that’s a key thing.

Then on the research front, I guess the final thing I’d mentioned, is just this idea of System 2 ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-symbolic_AI ) , which is currently these models take a fixed amount of time to produce every token or every word and some words are harder to produce than others. When we sit and think to answer a question, there’s like the silent contemplation step we go through and these models can’t do that yet. They’re in System 1 reflexive, instinctive mode all the time performing on a metronome, and so this is an active research area too. I think models that can ponder and think for a second about the hard parts of the problem will outperform the other ones, so will we see that emerge next year? I think that’s a key question too.

*That’s the big question I have about the whole transformer architecture. It is in many respects, it seems very smart, but is in fact very dumb. So one thing I struggle with is what’s the balance between the perception of intelligence versus how much actual intelligence is actually happening here? I think your bit about it doesn’t know when to ponder makes that point.*

*NF:* I think probably in the final system if LLMs survived, it survived as an important component, but they’re not the whole story, there’s some control layer above it that’s for looping through the model and latent space to ponder for a while or something when it needs to ponder. Maybe that’s what it looks like, or maybe Yann LeCun’s ( https://twitter.com/ylecun ) right or someone else’s right and the eventual architecture looks totally different. We don’t know.

*Well, you just said it there. If it’s like a for architecture on top, you’re talking about a deterministic system, which ought to be encouraging, because that’s designed and run by humans. That’s the whole concept of a deterministic system.*

*NF:* Well, the for loop might be learned too, so we don’t know. It may be probabilistic.

*Daniel, any 2024 predictions or things you got wrong about 2023?*

*DG:* I think the main thing I got wrong about 2023 is we actually had a podcast saying, “Where’s the stock price movement? Where’s the activity?” There’s all these things, I guess it’s all priced in. So it’s a mistake I make throughout the course of my life is I assume everyone’s having my thoughts and I assume the market is efficient. Where in reality, the efficient market hypothesis is possibly one of the greatest lies I’ve ever learned and has cost me a lot of money.

*Should have bought Nvidia ( https://stratechery.com/2023/nvidia-on-the-mountaintop/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL252aWRpYS1vbi10aGUtbW91bnRhaW50b3AvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDUxNDU0OTMsImlhdCI6MTcwMjU1MzQ5MywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.Wb82bq2qUdBxgPyqaTBZxWro8FM6DLGjq22QMeJJ-fg1wTHKaSDicEWg6_w9HxPiB2HUxUa8FRHWLLNnZlq6iQGsF1QDbiqdrkj4_UPIoWc1Hu1NpYWcZlNx9hO9kL4uD1Pa5GUlxuIdFocMAwixITi4Tnk6UBf7ncg1QxpVFYLAwbUat43wXrcEDcltpY54hGQbDtWv7QQSr7bEuLYCEZHiJhCsVkUGqJpuu6yEjWyMI4_vgiS08U0M33Uc5gY2pn8OO3pS-yQQ2Zf44ZH4TagO-GwDYGSubks5h8K8K5vRk3veAIM0HDEz_V9d9TBD0UlOj8upaYE-gHrnSUcHjw ) !*

*DG:* Should have bought more of a bunch of things.

Looking forward to the next year, I do think Nat’s point about agents is apt. We have this very basic issue in language models today where even as they make continual steps and they make mistakes, they don’t do a great job of after making three mistakes being correct on the fourth try. It’s usually the case that if it starts making errors, it just goes down the path of errors and then it starts making up API names that don’t exist and it just wants to get out of error hell. So coming up with better ways to basically search through the space of possible candidate responses in the language models, high dimensionality embedding space, I think will be very important.

Maybe that’s a little bit of what we do with System 2. Maybe those metaphors aren’t apt, but basically selecting a breakthrough that selects the next token much better than what we do today would be extremely impactful on a second derivative scale.

*It’s like slow thinking and fast thinking. The LLMs are fast thinking and you need a slow thinking layer on top that occasionally steps in and resets things.*

*DG:* Exactly. We may look back on some of the techniques we use today such as chain of thought where we have the language model tell itself it’s going to think step-by-step and we write out basically the slow down things, or we have a language model make a plan and then read the plan that it made. Those may be viewed as a horseless carriage, kerosene lamp prior to the LED sort of thing. Yeah, there may be just a much deeper, simpler way to do that. If I had to guess, maybe there’s just so many people working on it, that’s the big breakthrough of the year.

*Very good. Well, it’s been quite a year. It feels like every time you guys are on, have been gone quite frequently over the last 18 months, and yet every time we go way over because it feels like there’s so much to talk to and I have ten questions I didn’t even get to. It was good to see you guys, good to talk to you and I’m confident we’ll have plenty more to talk about soon.*

*DG:* Sounds great, looking forward to it. Thanks, Ben.

*NF:* Happy New Year.

This Daily Update Interview is also available as a podcast. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Daily Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a supporter, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://api.passport.online/api/1.0.0/users/RseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C/channelOptOut?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.Gp6DOl-mMx_zX0MOjHU2pQ65Y4Tjnw0FZzbSBBZT5VdlCjBz3oWje_ywEEW_ASZZPpS9vSsXbZLEyMiRXwM3ysrk7Ui3ugyxU7EOJvakvM14-vnj0FjOfjqsqGn3ijAUgUqge2hGZvyid1eHUqf2haNWbCfsK6skmZe6R70-rAfiSa_9cVUQfT_3g3rAvA8KMB28pIuq7w9aC35Smv9IplkVOrYPT4P-GyBxQDh8AYWvWua0H7VMkXj7KbDRYwdnDVp2xlhKP8O4iL0L2gGi3SsRR_Ajv7m2BixaSbkMpvqpOvaO2-xMf6kIKGvJJdvaDbaddDMQmecHkjImqjesbw&channel=email&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Fmember%2Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703