# APIs All the Way Down

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/APIs All the Way Down_Mon,_7_Dec_2020_13-56-13_+0000_1763d7fdf785e879.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:11.029403

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuxCAMRU8z7BKBCUxmwaKbXiMiwUnQEIjA6Si3L51IrSrZsuQv--n_yRIuKZ9mT4XYUTAP3hmhoZeqezBnOid61TNfhjkjbtYHQ_lAth9j8JMln-L7gnNQbDXOKd71-gF2lhPwee5AA_ZOzlK6eVTshzPYw3mMExr8wnymiCyYlWgvN_lxg89aMdGYso9LW46xkJ2e7ZS2Kuy17e5LY0NoaMXmZc_GpVdk3gAHLoDfhVRayFa0XnP1sBoF3jq-LfDvGcvml1Ll52o3DG-hehvq3I7o6Rww2jGgu2zTFdTbBZ07moivEpAI87WsWQCongt9Z5XmUo0s_oG-AbSFfeo

Welcome to the 1,367 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 23,341 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1qwzAQhJ_GOhr9RLJ90KGlTVvaUkh6SS9GljaxiC25kpzEb18lORQWBmZYPma0SnDwYZGTjwnNEUJrjSSC1oyvGmTkypCa18jGdh8ARmUHmcIMaJq7wWqVrHe3D4wpR71sQEHFBMNNpxsmsGrqRu85AK9qozFGV06rZmPBaZBwgrB4B2iQfUpTLNhDQdf5_ASujJNPdr-U2o_Zir0_ZxFHsvt4PH1tNp-Lj-8Lu5DL21CwdbQFe2p_qtGA_v3ebnfh3L_C5fzy_ICspJhiQnFFGBeElaS0AvNGCSBQrPB4oGWcu5iUPl5xKEjnU-eDdYccH3s1wnALcu826zg7m5YWnOoGMPdJ0n3EW8O0TCAdnOMAKUG4m3knSnmNiahQphmf53T_oD8KJIZ6]
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… 
In September, I wrote about MainStreet [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAM_JrllohHIMmBQy_9jQiCs4s2AQSmVf6-ZFdqVcmWJY_tGc9qEO4xnzrFgqQWyIt3mik-CTnMxOnBsUlOxJdlywCH8bvGXIGkane_GvQxvDYo5ZI89LQxJgXbpFXW0m2moxgV28CtQoqZK3LxLKY6D2EFDV-QzxiA7PqBmMpNfNz4Z4sQ0cbsw70v1RY067Nf49GA1LKpCAWbHOwuUd3RLpzdFnPXJjPWVIjXnHLKOB2ZkIqJnvVeUTkbBQxuAz3u_N9lkvUvZYOfD3PA_gLao0urRw0ezwWCsTu4twf4du31Ep4JdIDvsgMi5HezGcO5nChTI2lsLl7K_4h-AGo3gv4], a company that literally just gets your company free money from the government. Since then, Main Street has found Not Boring readers $1.1 million in sweet sweet free government money. $1.1 million! It’s simple, you plug in your payroll, MainStreet finds tax credits and incentives that apply to your business, then they send you the money. Like I said, free money. 
On average, MainStreet [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNFuhiAMhZ9GLg0gIF5wsZu9hkHolPwKBsoW3378mmxJk6ZtTr5z6izCmvJlzlSQ1AJ5Dt4wxfUgxUS8EZ5pqUko81cGOGzYDeYK5KzLHpzFkOKtoJRLsplJO-Gd9xKEGKSiauJWTHqRA4Nh5JS8ObOtPkB0YOAb8pUikN1siGfpho-Of7ZqoFiwEbGvpc0x4ZJyiCsJhlNOGacjawA29KwPisrJKmDQCXqsvC91KWjdq3fpINn8idv5tdkD9vvQIsytHzUGvGaIdtnBP-nw-cdtFq8TTISfsgMi5GfZInMuNWVqJI3m09vwP-gXNWF0lg] finds companies around $50k. That’s a lot of holiday bonuses. If you work for a company in the US that has engineers, go, right now, and get your money.
Hi friends 👋 , 
Happy Monday! Most weeks, as I’m researching and writing and preparing to hit send, I feel like a total imposter. 
Sometimes, like when I’m writing about the future of the office [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMGOhCAM_ZrhpgEExQOHuexvGISqZBQM1J3498tosptt2jTpa_vynjUIc0yn3mNGcmRIg3eatVw1UvTEaeGYkor4PEwJYDN-1ZgOIPsxrt4a9DFcF5RySRbdC8GUdXLqSyhlxURHQSVXsofGNR358AzmcB6CBQ3fkM4YgKx6Qdzzo3k--FfJEHGMyYe5zseY0dhXbeNWgL3UGxJU4XNbzbHsVGPBideccso47VgjW9bUrPYtlb1pgcFD0G3m_56RpH9ZCvxazAbrBRRtQ-nbETyeAwQzruBu2XgbdanAcwcd4J1XQIR0D4sXnEtFWduRwuZisSz8Ef0A8XJ9Nw] or Slack [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuxCAMRU8z7BIBCSRZsJhNrxERMBM0BCIwrXL70hmpVSUsBN_20_9GIzxSvtSZCpJaIK_eKib5PIhxIVaNls1iJr6sLgMc2geFuQI56xa80ehTfE1QygXZ1SSNdJtzsEzOmXlY2hbrgDsjZjZNlvxwVl2th2hAwSfkK0UgQe2IZ7kN9xv_aCcm3FL28dGXuhXU5tmbdDThbFVCe3e4Q7fVEEqnM3R4na2beMUpp4zTiQ1CsqFnvZdULFoCg9tIjwf_t5Fk9Ytq8nPXB4SX0Ayu7T5q9HitEPUWwL694zutl5XGBRXhqwRAhPz-bIFwLmbK5EQazaaWW_wDfQMI7ICI], topics that I’ve spent years thinking about, working in, and using, I’m comfortable that I know what I’m talking about and am qualified to opine. But mostly, I’m dropping into new territory and writing thousands of words about industries and companies in which other people have spent most of their working lives. When the topic is technical, I feel it even more.
This week’s topic - APIs - is among the most imposter syndrome-inducing yet. On the one hand, it feels like I’m stating the obvious: APIs are an increasingly important piece of how software is built. On the other, I feel like I have nowhere near the technical depth or hands-on experience to write about the topic with the nuance it deserves. 
But in these cases, I view my role as being the shameless kid in class who’s not afraid to raise his hand and ask the question that everyone else is thinking. If there’s something happening that I know is important, but don’t know nearly enough about, and I do this for a living, chances are there are many of you who want to understand it a little bit better, too. This, then, is the beginning of an exploration, and I look forward to your thoughts and feedback. 
Now let’s get to it. 
APIs All the Way Down
Some ancient Asian cosmological views are close to the idea of an infinite regression of causes, as exemplified in the following apocryphal story: A Western traveler encountering an Oriental philosopher asks him to describe the nature of the world: “It is a great ball resting on the flat back of the world turtle.” “Ah yes, but what does the world turtle stand on?” “On the back of a still larger turtle.” “Yes, but what does he stand on?” “A very perceptive question. But it’s no use, mister; it’s turtles all the way down.”
-- Carl Sagan, Gott and the Turtles
Stripetechery
On Thursday, the kind of thing that gets people like me very excited happened: Ben Thompson wrote about Stripe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOhCAQRU8juzaAgrpg0Zu5hkEolTSCgXIm3n5Qk5mEpEg9qF__G42wxHSqPWYkR4Y0OquY5H0j2oFY1VrWi564PM4JYNPOK0wHkP2YvDMaXQz3D0q5IKuyA8ydlnPLGt0bCcIYbVsDLe_ENEtDLp1RH9ZBMKDgG9IZAxCvVsQ9V8274l_lZExlM7MWXJu4lQ6nnD7A7fDavcY5pu0V5797Lpg4dT1knHasEZI1NaudpGLQEhhULd0WXudjyqjN55pMkgoRp5hcWAr-rHoDf4PicCx1O4LDc4SgJw_2MY9PXLcXPHdQAX6yB0RIT7MkwrnoKZMdKWo2luDCv9AvGRyAOw], which announced its new Stripe Treasury [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOhSAQPI0sDV-fLljMZq5hEFolD8FAMxNvPzxdTNJJp7tSqY81CFvKlz5TQVIL5Nk7zQY-CiUn4rR0bFQj8WVeM8BhfNCYK5CzLsFbgz7Fm0EpV2TX3C2r4JROE3ewSjO5ya7GSKksLGJk5KMzm-o8RAsafiBfKQIJekc8Sye-Ov7dpmD2J_Q2He3ADKbUfBGvOeWUcfpiQg1M9Kz3A1WTGYBBJ-mx8b7UpaCx7w-XZB0TLin7uDX4vZsDwg00-3PbR40erxmiWQK4Jxk-XdxG8TpBR_gtARAhP88Wl3M1Uja8SFNzqbUS_4X-ADlIdAo] product, and interviewed [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE25JQISKD1w2Mt-IyLgbbwlEIHTKL9f2h5WsjTSjEdjj3cE91xOu-VKbK9QJgxWaGkGNd5YsGMQRhmGdfopAKvDaKnswLZ9jugdYU5vB-dSscWa2xi4H5zgoEYtDPcmGKH0wB04ESR75UxuDwjJg4UnlDMnYNEuRFu9DF8X-d2mUmmX-aXJvc9rYySXvIFLHSaC8kQ4ugNp6doqbtBtBSoGSNT95iV1PseINadmYWhfZiH5VQxKi6EXPWqubk6DgMvI17vs6z5Xcv7xSmPFpkxzLpjuTX4sboX4FtrXU8N1T0jnBMnNEcKnEPpU-P6Pzg1sgqNGoHbrh2wtSakMF_rKWlrIrcz0H_QHVLqGkA] its co-founder and President, John Collison. 
Stripe Treasury is “a banking-as-a-service API that lets you embed financial services in your marketplace or platform.” Simply, by writing a few lines of code, platforms can let their customers set up bank accounts at partner banks like Goldman Sachs and Evolve Bank & Trust. 
In the press release [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOhSAQPI0sDaDwcMFiNu8aBqFV8hQMNDPx9oOazCSd9KfSXdVlDcIS06mPmJGUDGn0TjPJVSf6gTjdO6aEIj6PcwLYjd80pgLkKNPmrUEfw71BKRdk1d0gh1kKNcycghJCWMV4x5S00onZDOTiGU1xHoIFDd-QzhiAbHpFPHLTfTX8XSNj8ge0Nu61CfCTU_wra8IEJpd0Eq855ZRx-mKdkKxrWeslFYORwKDp6b7wNpcpo7Gf6xpJOkScYvJhqfBnNTtsN1AfGmveS_B4jhDMtIF7fsXHnVs6ngfoS8UGiJCeYTWAc6Eoky9S2VysPoV_ol-F63lP], Stripe highlighted its partnership with Shopify, which is using Treasury to build Shopify Balance. Now, when a merchant creates a Shopify account, they can set up a bank account at the same time, through the same platform. 
That’s incredibly cool in its own right, but it triggered bells in my head for another reason. When I was researching and writing Stripe: The Internet’s Most Undervalued Company [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMtuxCAMRb9m2CXiEfJYsOimvxGR4JmgIRCBmSp_XzcjtapkjMQV99h3tQiPlE9zpIKsFsizd0b0clS6m5gznROjHpkv8z0D7NYHg7kCO-oS_GrRp3j94FxqtpleiEWL0fYwdENHHtSUnOyqOncfJsF-OLOtzkNcwcAL8pkisGA2xKPc1MdNflLFhEvKPj7aUpeCdn22a9pJOOgUzP6ABjdofETIEbA0Oxk3NTrILxsquAZWxbyRXHIh-SCU7oVqRet7rieaT8Ct4_tD_gOwbH7JJD83u0O4BNp3pnuv0eM5Q7RLAPeOAt_hXZvheYCJ8FUCIE32fqR8pNQjF_3AiOYSxRj_QN9k3YTc], I asked people for the biggest knocks on Stripe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpwjIDwSA4cVlr1tt8QEXBa1AQiMFvl75e0h5Us-Tkee5xFuKd8miMVJLVAnoM3TPFxkGIi3gjPRjmSUOY1A-w2bAZzBXLUZQvOYkjxjaCUS_IwfpXOisHDOjI2MW0FlQtd1SrkSh1bycUz2-oDRAcGfiGfKQLZzAPxKN3w1fFbM3wFRMi9S3vLDuue508LClqspQWMT-OkudJaKyEUlUJ0w63hvzklwXDKKeNUs0EqNvSsD21ksgoYdILud96XurRl7nkxkGxiwiXlEO-t_XzYHbZ3o305N7_XGPCcIdplA_8RAD-Svf_B8wAT4VU2uK7-FJsqnMuRMqVJY_OpiRf_if4AtJV9Fw]. One answer I heard from multiple people was that they had too much customer concentration with Shopify -- by one estimate, even before the pandemic, Stripe was generating $350 million in revenue from Shopify alone [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAMhk9TlpFxAiELFiONeo2IBKdFTSACp1VuP7RdjGTJL9mf_c-O6ZbyafdUWByF8hi8lRpNq7pBeNt5aZQRoYxLJtpcWC3ng8R-TGuYHYcUPxMAqMTdLt2inSRlJq0m8DOCx2XQPS2KwGst3pzRHT5QnMnSk_KZIonV3pn3cml_Lnitxq_ATLmZ01azEJ9UOMTbOAc-a6Gw46PUQCJCZ9CYfgANbat1d2mvdc8vgggWAUEi9LJVWraNbIIGNThNki4dbDdsyjHVZfPjTRLZxsRTypVU24-722j9NOq3Y_XbESt_pOimlfxXCP5K9_mLz51spFdZ6X39t1jVQVQGpO5FpflURYz_oD9tIoCc] -- and that Shopify would inevitably get sick of paying Stripe and build their own payments solutions. 
The Shopify Balance announcement means that the opposite is true. Instead of pulling its business, Shopify is integrating more deeply with Stripe. Many of its merchants will keep their money in accounts managed by banks with which Stripe, not Shopify, owns the relationship. Think of the switching costs if Shopify were to try to pull out of the relationship now. They’re practically married.
Shopify is a really smart company. It wouldn’t tie its own hands for no good reason. Instead, it made a deliberate, strategic choice to focus on the things that it does best, and to plug in Stripe for all of the things that it does best. That’s what third-party APIs enable their customers to do. 
“API” is one of those acronyms you hear a lot. You might know that it means Application Programming Interface, and you might even know that APIs are the way software talks to other software, but if you’re like me, you’ve never really gone deep on them.
The Stripe x Shopify announcement woke me up, though, and led me down a rabbit hole to places both familiar and new, to the question of what good strategy looks like on the internet and why most companies should just be API Frankensteins with one main point of differentiation. Like the turtles, modern software is APIs all the way down.
So today, I’m going to take you down there with me. We’ll explore: 
What Are APIs?
The API-First Ecosystem
Good Internet Strategy, Bad Internet Strategy
Why Shopify is Smart to Build on Stripe and Twilio
The Magic of API-First Business Models
Twilio and Investing in API-First
API-first has some fascinating implications for how companies are built and where value is created. But first things first… 
What Are APIs? 
There’s an old Picasso fable that goes something like this: 
A woman approaches Picasso in a restaurant, asks him to sketch something on a napkin for her, and tells him that she’d be happy to pay whatever it’s worth. He obliges, scribbles something quickly, and asks for $10,000. “$10,000!?” the woman replies in shock, “But you just did that in 30 seconds!” “No,” Picasso tells the woman, “It has taken me 40 years to do that.”
That’s one way to think about an API. APIs let companies leverage years of other companies’ work in seconds. 
For a more technical but approachable explanation, Justin Gage’s What’s an API? [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEGOwyAMfE25NQISUnLg0Mt-I3LASVAJROBsld8v2xxWK9my5JFnPGOBcEn5NHsqxI6CefTOiF7qVnUDc6ZzQivNfBnnjLiBD4bygWw_puAtkE_xc8G5VGw1WnbOzXOrQGurZ1B80CAHdIgce6fYr84Ih_MYLRr8xnymiCyYlWgvt_Z5k1-1CO0aK38IZ1OOqRDYV2PTVqG99nsFKneId9g980ZyyYXkD9GqXrSNaHzP1QA9Crx1fFvkPw6WTUw0pezjUuHXChuGD1BNjXVuR_R0jhhhCuguv3Ql9Hmfzh1NxHcJSIT5WtYQpFSai_7BqppLNav4J_QDpfR7wA] and APIs For the REST of Us [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAQ-5pyS8SjkOTAoZf9jYjAJEElEMHQVf5-aXtYaSRLtjyWbQ3ClvKlz1SQ1AJ59k4zxUch7xNx-u7YKEfiy7xmgMP4oDFXIGddgrcGfYofB6Vckl0LS-0qpQJl1DTKlQm5TnSgYlKNWRh558ymOg_RgoYX5CtFIEHviGe5iceN_7RDsHts_0O4egevxryNpaE5fenWlDvcoctQsEtrVwvxmlNOGadDy1RM9Kz3isrJKGBwu9Nj432pS0Fjn71NB8k6JlxS9nFr8nM3B4SP0KrNDY8aPV4zRLMEcN_W-N3pUwKvE3SE3xIAEfKXbFNwLkfK1EBamkttsfgf9Ad4inza] are the two best resources I’ve found. According to Justin [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUM2OhCAMfprhaABFnAOHvcxrGISONqNgoOzEt1_UwyZNmvZL-_04SzDHdJg9ZmIlQxrRG9HLoVXdk3nTeTGogWEe3wlgs7gaSgXYXqYVnSWM4brgXCq2mLeaWuuc5JZ33olWeztoBU9woLVWHTt5Rls8QnBg4BfSEQOw1SxEe360Pw_5qkVfJILUuLjVCamEPYFHR3ZagaGRXHIhuRat6kXbiAZ7rp62BwGPjm-zbHKZMln3OV-wZEKkKSYMc4U_i91gvYBqY6x9KwHpGCGc7_3tkO5MLsF07GACfPMKp6x7WW1LqQYues0qm481nfBP9AcRVncZ]:
Applications are just a bunch of functions that get things done: APIs wrap those functions in easy to use interfaces so you can work with them without being an expert.
An engineer writes a bunch of code to manage complex things, and builds an API on top of the code to abstract away most of the complexity so that using all of that code is as simple as writing a few lines of code.
On Invest Like the Best [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFqwzAQRL_GOhpJtmz5oEMhDuSStqE9G9laJ0tsyUhyUvfrqySHwsIuMyyPmUFHODu_qcWFSNYAvkOjWMVlIcqGGFUaJoUkGLrRA8waJxX9CmRZ-wkHHdHZ5welXJCLkjCOvSwpq-seGsr12FPJa2kYFw2Imjw4nV4Ngh1AwQ385iyQSV1iXEJWvGV8n8YtYPOwuIjjlg9uThIsGJyBdNFri4fdcGPI338PLfKf9XSos2IfMCt21n60bTl-n77QfG70eLT-bu4EFaecMk5rVoiKFTnLsaKi0RUwyEo6n3ke1j5EPVwfROKVdbF3Hu052deLnmF6Gil6l_a8WoxbB1b3E5hXK_HV4zNk3BZQFu5hghjBv8RUFedCUlbVJNGMS43af9AfEEOG2w], Benchmark’s Eric Vishria [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMmOgzAM_ZrmiLKQQA85zGV-A2UxxSokKDGt-PsJ7WEkS5b99PSW4AgeuZx2z5XYUaFMGK0wclS6v7No-yhGPTKs01wANoerpXIA2w-_YnCEOX0YnEvNFqvDbEYZBvCDihL6wcwxKDHL3mvl755dOpM7IkIKYOEF5cwJ2GoXor3e1M9N_rahNxJB6ULe2gUFwwvrUtAxtJJLLiQfhNJGqE50aLi-OwMCbj3fHrKrh6_kwvOis2JTJp8LpkeDn4vbYP0ALcLU9nYkpHOC5PwK8ZuOvn18zNK5g03writclr7PFllKPXJhBtbUYm7NpH-hPwzqdXo] describes it simply: people interact with software through Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs), software interacts with software through APIs. 
APIs handle an ever-increasing amount of things that get done in the world. Something that might have been a pen and paper process involving hundreds of people 50 years ago, and a dozen people clicking a computer screen a decade ago, is probably software talking to other software via APIs today. 
There are three types of APIs: 
Internal APIs: Used to do complex things more simply within a company. 
Public APIs: Typically used to open up datasets so others can build on top of them. 
Vendor APIs: Give customers the full superpowers of an entire company in a few lines of code.
Today, we’re focusing on Vendor APIs, also known as third-party APIs. The companies who sell third-party APIs are called “API-first companies” (still with me?). 
Whereas an internal or public API abstracts away the complexity of some code through one clean endpoint, like this: 
An API-first company essentially abstracts away the complexity of a whole best-in-class company, giving clients the full output of a highly-focused org by typing a few things, like this: 
Hiring has traditionally been one of the most important things a company does. Picking the right API vendor is like the hiring decision on steroids. When a company chooses to plug in a third-party API, it’s essentially deciding to hire that entire company to handle a whole function within its business. Imagine copying in some code and getting the Collison brothers to run your Finance team. Just like in traditional hiring, the impact of that decision compounds over time, for better or for worse, but at full company scale.
So let’s get to know the job candidates. 
The API-First Ecosystem 
API-first companies are a subset of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) companies, with a few key distinguishing features: 
Purchasing Decision. Traditional SaaS is a department-head, IT, or exec purchasing decision, while API-first is typically a product and engineering purchasing decision. 
Users. Many people in a company interact with a typical SaaS product (like Slack, Salesforce, Airtable, Asana), whereas only the engineers typically work with API-first companies.
Business Model. The most common SaaS business model is to charge per seat, while most API-first companies charge customers by usage of the product, either based on Pay Per Call (each time the API is pinged, say if you’re sending an SMS via Twilio) or as a percentage of transaction size (Stripe charges 2.9% plus $0.30 for each transaction). 
Use Case. Traditional SaaS products help employees get things done, APIs automatically do those things themselves. 
API-first companies can be confusing to explain, because many of them offer both API products and traditional SaaS products. Their customers run the gamut, from large platforms like Shopify and Uber all the way down to individuals who want to accept payments online, and everything in between. Puja and I just had pictures taken with Dev, and the photographer sent us her invoice via Stripe. She was using one of Stripe’s traditional SaaS products with a GUI, not writing code. 
For this essay, though, we’ll be talking about API-first companies whose customers build functionality into their products or internal processes via APIs. 
Those companies are increasingly able to build nearly everything non-core through APIs. In The Third-Party API Economy [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMmOwyAQRL8m3GyxGC8HDrnMb1gs7RjFgAVNRv77IclhpJZaXaXWU5XVCI-UL3WmgqQWyKt3io18FnJYiFODY7OciS_rlgGC9ofCXIGc1RzeavQpfj4o5ZLsSjA7acFnx-Q2W7oZI0cnxCgGMNu2MPLmrLo6D9GCghfkK0Ugh9oRz3IT9xv_aRPA-Rp6m0I7rI4vXboXRKwZSlNwhw53n1136oxXp0_fgU0xhaubF2a4nqZh05J4xSmnjNOJCTky0bPej1QuegQGt4GGB-9LNQW1fb5pJKuY0KTs46PZz10HOD5GC7y2HWr0eK0QtTnAfbvAb3ufaHidoCL8lgMQIX_FVhDncqZsnEijudR6jP-gP__EhK4], Canvas Ventures’ Grace Isford [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpyjIx5NDlw2Et_IyLBTVETiMDZKn-_tD2sZMmyR6N5zJ5pyeV0e64sjkpljMFJi70yehDB6SB704tYx3sh2nxcHZeDxH5Ma5w9x5w-DAA04uG0BAIktEYNSg89DoMGHQikAlTWi7fO6I8QKc3k6JfKmROJ1T2Y93pRPxe8teFXZKbSzXlr11L8TLHecwkiOgQEiXCVylipOtlFC2bwliRdNGwLdvWYKvv5-aaL4lLmKZeYlgY_H36j9QO0CGPb25EinyMlP60Uvun428fHLJ87uUSvutLb0vfZIiOaHqS9iqYWcmsm_Qv9AU01c6g] maps dozens of players in the space across nineteen separate verticals. 
“There’s an app for that [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuqgzAQ_RqzlDyM2kUWF0pX9x8kj6mGaiLJpGK__qbt4sLAwDnMnIfVCHNMp9pjRlIypMk7xXo-CtldiFOdY6Mcic_TPQFs2q8KUwGyF7N6q9HH8LmglEuyKGkG0Bc3GG74nfFB6M72euxGLYbOCEveOpMuzkOwoOAJ6YwByKoWxD034qfhtzrHcbRnLFgMtDZub0SjXRpxezbiml8p3-H8fZ0z8YpTThmnAxOyZ6Jlre-pvOgeGDQd3Wbe5mIyavt4vyJJhYgmJh_mSj8WvcH6IWqkqe6tBI_nBEGbFdw3LX77-ZjHcwcV4MgrIEL6grUCzuVIWT-QquZibSr8C_0BQ8x6tQ]” is now “there’s an API for that.” For almost anything that a business needs to do, there’s an API-first company with a product or suite of products they can plug in. What’s incredible to me about this graphic is that each logo represents something that a company would have had to build on its own previously, that it can now do by writing a few lines of code, and do better than they would have ever been able to in-house. 
There are two main reasons for that: focus and scale. 
Focus. API-first companies focus on solving a very specific problem. Stripe started with payments, and put all of their efforts into building the best payments solution. Twilio started with messaging. Plaid does bank data, Algolia does search, Shippo does shipping, Checkr does background checks. That focus means that everything the company does is oriented towards solving all of the problems related to that particular area. 
Importantly, it means that everyone who works for those companies went there to solve those problems. Whereas an engineer at Uber who signed up to change transportation would be pissed off if she were assigned to work on background checks, because it’s not the company’s core product, an engineer at Checkr is stoked to work on background checks, because that’s what the company is all about! 
Scale. API-first companies serve thousands or millions of customers, so they’re able to justify small improvements that build up to an incredible product over time. Plaid can spend the effort to integrate with even very small financial institutions, for example, since there will likely be thousands of people who use that bank across all of the products that use Plaid. 
API-first companies’ focus and scale give their software-building customers best-in-class products that constantly improve at costs that scale with their business. From the product side, they can be godsends. They’re also fascinating strategically in two ways: the competitive advantages of the API-first companies themselves and the impact they have on their customers’ competitive advantages. Let’s start with their customers. 
Good Internet Strategy, Bad Internet Strategy
While I write more often about 7 Powers and The Outsiders, Richard Rumelt’s Good Strategy, Bad Strategy [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMlugzAQ_Zr4BvKCjTn4kKpqTz31A5DBQ2IFbGQPRfTra5JDpdGMNNtbRotwi-kwa8xItgyp984wxbWQTUecaRzTUhOf-ykBLNbPBtMGZN2G2Y8WfQzPC0q5JHcDorOD5ZNifHJSQMNU16i20c6pqWOcnDi93ZyHMIKBH0hHDEBmc0dc80VcL_yjxL7vtV3sbwz1GJfS-IzRVd-YTr5H9WZd9e6nCdL5pvqyiJByWXNrSVTQVmvFRUe84ZRTxmnLhFRM1Kz2isrOKmBwaehy43Xehox2fJxIJJkQcYjJh1sZP-52gfk5KIL7UpcteDx6CHaYwb28wJd7T2l4rGAC7HmGk9OrWQziXGrKVEsKmovFx_AP9AeZVILa] is probably my favorite practical strategy handbook ever written. 
Good strategy almost always looks simple and obvious and does not take a thick deck of Powerpoint slides to explain. It does not pop out of some “strategic management” tool, matrix, chart, triangle, or fill-in-the-blanks scheme. Instead, a talented leader identifies the one or two critical issues in the situation — and then focuses and concentrates action and resources on them.
This is the beauty of API-first companies. They allow customers to focus on the one or two things that differentiate their businesses, while plugging in best-in-class solutions everywhere else. Just as AWS and the cloud let entrepreneurs launch more cheaply, API-first businesses allow them to scale and professionalize with low upfront costs and managerial effort. As one person in the space told me, “It’s actually becoming crazy to build your business in any way other than using all APIs except your point of differentiation.”
Jeff Lawson, the founder and CEO of leading API-first company, Twilio, might disagree with the premise of talking strategy at all. On the Bessemer Venture Partners Cloud Giants Podcast [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1qwzAQhJ_GOhr9WLZ00KGlhEBzaVp6NbK0iUVsyZHkFOfpqyaHwsIuM-wO-xmd4RzippaQMloTxN5ZRVoqGG8ksqqxRHCBXOpPEWDWblI5roCWdZic0dkF_9jAmHI0qpbYgbFBCtkwbhh0QmjRsXKCSWI6if5yer1aB96AghvELXhAkxpzXlLFXiq6KxUW8HVaQnanrTZhLhIsLgULZaLfeyf1_b4Df9o3R_k5ve6vXxXbJVexN5-uN3J4H4-6bQy_RXK4puYDOUUxxYTijjDeElaT2rWYS90CgarB85nWaR1S1ubyl4ii8iEPITp_LvZl1DNMD6O83pc-r97lrQevhwnsk0p-cnw8mbcFlIefNEHOEJ9iQUUpF5i0HSppNhSi_j_oFylPhfo], he said: 
I often say that strategy is a dirty word in business; it should be struck. Any time you find yourself talking about strategy, you’re probably off-course, actually. There’s only one business strategy: serve your customers. 
I don’t think that Rumelt and Lawson would disagree, actually. Both point at the same idea, that what people call “strategy” is often a bunch of fancy words and falsely precise goals that obfuscate the core purpose of the business: serving customers in a differentiated way. Judiciously using APIs where possible gives companies strategic clarity and the ability to solve their customers’ problems in a way that only they can. 
There’s more! To learn what good strategy looks like on the internet, why Shopify relies on Stripe, why API-first is such a good business model, and what I’m investing in…
Thanks as always to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOgzAQ-5rmVpQJJMAhh172N1AeQxuRB0rCIv5-0_aw0sgj2ZqxbKMqPlO-5J5KJUfBvDgrQbCp58NMrBwsTHwirixrRgzKeVnzgWQ_tHdGVZfi54JSxslLjpNY6agBBdLVauDTzICjAjtwzVZN3j6LOqzDaFDiL-YrRSRevmrdy61_3NhPm_M8O-_ihtbFzqTQKBcbWBXvwZiUgzPbfRYzwAgUmkKcZJRRYHSEngvoO-icoHxWAgFvAw1P1pVDl6rM9n5Jsoyp6pRdfDZ5e6mA_iO0bEvb4YiuXgtGpT3ab-z6LeqTol47yohn8Vgr5i_ZumCMTxTESJqbTa2y-G_0BxuGe58] and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAMfE25NQJSCDlw2Mt-IzLgNmwJRMTZKL9f2h5WssbSjOzRjAfCR6mnXctGbN-wTjFYoaXp1W1kwd6CMMqwuE33irhATJbqjmzdXYoeKJb8vuBcKjZbGMEPXhsFsr8b4eE-ahMwmEGOXjjNXj4T7CFi9mjxF-tZMrJkZ6J1u_RfF_nd5jiOLsX8xBBz58vSqJgbrPsPXN0MRNeRa-lAq8ayaCWXXEg-iF5p0Xeii5qrETQKvNz48pDdtruNwD9f71i1uZArNeZHk58zLJjeQss1tb3sOdI5YQaXMHwi06ekdwI6V7QZjy0hEdYP2XqQUhku9MCaWyitrvxv9Ae7Hnrn] for editing, and to Ben [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaADFx4HDXuY3TAutkkEw0O7Ev1_UwyaddLorlXoYIFxiOvUeM7EjYxqd1aKVfa2agVndWNGrnrk8zglxA-c1pQPZfkzeGSAXw83gXCq2at7MCHKYa1Q4CdXUYI3hALaDoWAtu3RGOKzDYFDjL6YzBmRer0R7ftU_L_kuQ19HhKkycSvXhCFF7zERc1pyyYXknahVK-pKVK7laoAWBb4avi2yyseUCcznYrOkQ6QpJheWAn9W2NDfQEkwlr0dwdE5YoDJo33C0VPH7ZXOHXXAb_Z4OXqeJbGUquei7VhRs7EUE_6F_gDad3Vl] and my other more technical friends for the input and ideas!
Just a few more things. Last week was a whirlwind of fun conversations and collaborations, check ‘em out:
Acquired Slack x Salesforce Podcast [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFvhCAQhX-NHA2gKB44bNNueuhettk2PRmUUYkKFLC7_vvS3UOTSWbyXiZf3utlhNH6XTgbItoC-FYrQSrKC1Y2SIlSEc440qEdPMAq9SKi3wC5rVt0L6O25v6BMWVoEryhvGmUGqSsBkpYXXVQynqQIBnhUKI_Tis3pcH0IOAH_G4NoEVMMbqQFYeMHtNYByYPzkY97Hlv1ySB08EqSBeeP0_7U_12uH1M14tb-0Vbes6KY9BZ8bxRdnm5lfN7_f11OzdkfNWn_YC0oJhiQnFNClaRIie5rjBrZAUEshKvI83D1oUo-_mPiLwwNnbWazMme57kCsvdSNHbtNfN6Li3YGS3gHq0Eh893kPG3YEwcA0LxAj-IaaqKGUck6pGiaZsatT8g34Bvs2HYA] :Acquired has been one of my must-listen podcasts for a few years, and their work is the starting point for a lot of my essays (including Tencent and SoftBank). It was surreal and so much fun to be able to join David and Ben to talk about Salesforce’s acquisition of Slack. 
S-1 Club: Airbnb [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAM_Jpw2whIyOPAoZf-RmTASdASiMBplb8v3T1UlWxZ8tgez1gg3FK-9ZkKsatgXrzTYpBTp_qZOd07MamJ-bKsGfEAHzTlC9l5meAtkE_xtcG5VGzXOPVrP1pr3KqAu25EEN1o0Ux8VDMH9suzwOU8RosavzDfKSILeic6S9N9NPKzBu24YcQMwRdqy2UKgX22Nh0VPGuCzyaaR517OF-gEOYHZKrTzGvJJReSj6JTg-ha0fqBqxkGFNj0_Njkv4ss65jIpOzjVuHnDgeGF1BFLrUeV_R0LxjBBHRv_fR27CWH7hN1xO8SkOof72Y1RUo1cTGMrLK5VL2Lf0Q_L0uCLA]: It’s finally here. Airbnb is going public this week (rumored to be pricing at a $42 billion market cap). I teamed up with Mario Gabriele and the S-1 Club to go deeeeep on the company in preparation. 
Remote Work Conversation with Paul Millerd [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1rxCAQhn_NejOo0XwcPLSFvbUU2nswOkkkiQY_uuTf192FFgRnHIfn5dEqwezDKQ8fE8oRwmCNpA3rasF7ZCQ3tBMdsnGYAsCu7CZTyICOPG5Wq2S9e2wQwgRaZE-mZmrp2HIugGtBJypGLqaeK8WAGHTnDCobC06DhB8Ip3eANrmkdMRL_XJh13KU04sP1bSXevTZmQ1ixAHsrmbrAE855QD45sNafsBhozcQS_mp9Hrid_3mw271ijF-DdaVnRlfs8PfHn_ALW6QEoSIv2xJgRmhPS55psSRlYyUnpGW1qKhdUUr2xDRqwYoXDjZZ1bFPMZUOJX2OwrS-TT6O6SM10XtsD0GxdBQ7j07m84BnBo3ME956an74SKdB0j3l-n5WIwyJjpCmxYVmvFFvPsH_QKrE5Zh]: Last week, I wrote about Remote Work. My friend Paul Millerd has been living the remote life since before it was cool, quitting his job at a top-tier consulting firm to go solo. Really fun convo. 
Thanks for reading, and see you on Thursday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkUuv2jAUhH9NskR-xCFZZEF53IY20ArKaxM59gEMiR0lzk3Dr68BqVUlSz6akT1H8wlu4WKaIalNa_2uhSZXMsEhiSgLYl8mgcQRi3zV5ucGoOKqTGzTgV93RakEt8ro1wuECPOvSRDFRGLK4-DMiwjHLCwIYlF4PkPMpKD-MyfnnVSgBSTwCc1gNPhlcrW2bj068cjCHW1sYRqlL6O2K1rLxX0kTOUMLp6RbpCq5UUJ-Wsnjy5qIwVvrUdnHgmtuYN2IwxLLMhuOJDynt7M79UtDbLHL7Te9Ep8xA-5iOvTNA2zW4rXs4nzRZtW5VU-te2xXz0ytN5mNFO94ofVw_2hxNed-r6d99ksxanTBd2pp376KB_H_bI97eKy2C_qYrqMR2Z-vIy32eSw1Hxz23679oxtQNPb505_mR7Cn3Qx31eQ_uiQrxKCCMIEjTFlIaYjPFIhYjEPAYMXoOpC_mvDb5K_NTn7fuUVlC_DwcndXXVa2SEH_SxKvrnZN-kXBjvUkGjo2xKsheYtOpiEsAjhcOy7NGlcv_pf0B-vzb6n