# Apple Earnings, Shopify Earnings (Stratechery Update 11-6-2023)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Apple Earnings, Shopify Earnings (Stratechery Update 11-6-2023)_Mon,_6_Nov_2023_14-01-17_+0000_18ba4f0277dc7ff1.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:29.570366

---

Apple's earnings were fine, with a notable Services spike — is it from Google? Then, Shopify is back to the basics, and looking good for it.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/apple-earnings-shopify-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FwcGxlLWVhcm5pbmdzLXNob3BpZnktZWFybmluZ3MvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDE4NzEyNzcsImlhdCI6MTY5OTI3OTI3NywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.qIiXMt1W4I9-pUJAWBaNcDYSfPI6-2dHRHC9GHlVtlHjqcNayS8DxG3c9wjew4Ky-zYM8RWY_8PVu-m8NrQQ-HWlkeGur74sT9GJW6skuLkkh5MscIzduRozRSIh9e1YX0qXsUBsG5jgp3_9H4D-X7O9f0R04Y4yUCc1SGQt5XV0gKyzDFPx6CCtxpIhvcJy_Yn848j3f9vp9l8_YJS0utLrQH4f6Kz07Y13EJHpzZMj7hvOcbxB6-Jihp4pgdEJ7gLoq_kB4Wnosv75CVSEKIVluTG7lspr51NJros9xZW8y--nQwJROW5oad_XNquW9ox-Xw07IvclAV8W89nRiQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

Apple Earnings, Shopify Earnings

( https://stratechery.com/2023/apple-earnings-shopify-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2FwcGxlLWVhcm5pbmdzLXNob3BpZnktZWFybmluZ3MvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDE4NzEyNzcsImlhdCI6MTY5OTI3OTI3NywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.qIiXMt1W4I9-pUJAWBaNcDYSfPI6-2dHRHC9GHlVtlHjqcNayS8DxG3c9wjew4Ky-zYM8RWY_8PVu-m8NrQQ-HWlkeGur74sT9GJW6skuLkkh5MscIzduRozRSIh9e1YX0qXsUBsG5jgp3_9H4D-X7O9f0R04Y4yUCc1SGQt5XV0gKyzDFPx6CCtxpIhvcJy_Yn848j3f9vp9l8_YJS0utLrQH4f6Kz07Y13EJHpzZMj7hvOcbxB6-Jihp4pgdEJ7gLoq_kB4Wnosv75CVSEKIVluTG7lspr51NJros9xZW8y--nQwJROW5oad_XNquW9ox-Xw07IvclAV8W89nRiQ ) Monday, November 6, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

OpenAI’s first developer conference is happening later this morning ( https://openai.com/blog/announcing-openai-devday ). Meanwhile, on last Thursday’s Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/bidens-executive-order-on-ai-innovation-and-the-steve-jobs-approach-balancing-ai-risks-and-upside ) , we covered last week’s Article Attenuating Innovation ( https://stratechery.com/2023/attenuating-innovation-ai/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL2F0dGVudWF0aW5nLWlubm92YXRpb24tYWkvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDE4NzEyNzcsImlhdCI6MTY5OTI3OTI3NywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.rRn05pmgbugr2ubHUr64xfb6JyPdQZbYrJSPULTIsgsyfuLZMUjtizk3L7ErUOh4ZnO9en3LVljh7Xgl0Tb0tZnnKAvQeySbDx0Wx9EF-mGP5bGpjLenOmmSUcYNRAhjxBjHvUz8JBIkE1dLv-6cUAFKXRyEvYWtqH6aZbItjT52oZtqJZxoDZ5-yXdy2yKw6xaxU-DxtsM87iuluN9wuU6zoHVi1lz0xURyBH-uOGBDTRgFpXGKwn-mJh0poHGBkbVWp4uyaqFukcsfsB-3ayagMeUVSfvpmIK8Bxp8R5JO25BT_cB4FRuDWgxViSwLuR4qrNvXwbS9xCxDMjilKQ ) , and the broader debate about AI safety and innovation generally.

On to the Update:

Apple Earnings
--------------

From the Wall Street Journal ( https://www.wsj.com/tech/apple-aapl-q4-earnings-report-2023-ce899b21 ) :

Apple said sales fell for the fourth consecutive quarter, including a decline in China that came as the company faces a broad economic slowdown in the country and new competition from rival Huawei Technologies. The September quarter marks the fourth straight period in which Apple reported year-over-year declines in total revenue, the longest such slump in years. Apple sales were $89.5 billion, down less than 1% from the previous year and largely in line with analyst estimates, even as net income of about $23 billion exceeded expectations. Apple shares fell around 3% in after-hours trading after a company executive said revenue for the December quarter would be similar to last year.

Despite a broad market decline in demand for smartphones, the Cupertino, Calif., company said its iPhone business advanced 2.8% to $43.8 billion, matching analysts expectations. The tech giant released four new phones in the iPhone 15 family in September, including models that featured titanium cases and better cameras. The company’s business in China, its third largest market, shrank 2.5% to $15.1 billion, missing analyst estimates. In the country, Apple is facing a broad economic slowdown, stronger domestic competition and heightened government scrutiny.

China giveth, and China taketh away; I noted back in January 2021 ( https://stratechery.com/2021/apple-earnings-an-interview-with-jay-goldberg-about-chips-and-intel/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.BsllOmOjtI64YlyPOY-DG1vYw6J5Fqq7u2EuCAYgKjpqXcculMYuD6NO1k-e-NSLCRE2o5rioCC9jhh5BhEnEE2927throc8y8Shm_SqX40Cj1GIEIvZkIWIURyRJRuid3G-jK7G_EBI8X919PMWYkXoZYTdT562DJkjdHD_6xHEXycFEt5UtbB6UL31xwNW44z0kR1M99uUXBOZSQO0yTCzyEy1hPER4McsMHvZAYp6cT88DDucKnqj-FHa__3kYC2icuLD2ldeeJ0RNwAL2RjNoYHviJWsRWUIVitISz6cp6O2jnd6EX0WE-cB17XEiRpjzDz1shfTyngRC9zO0w ) that Apple was the biggest beneficiary of Huawei’s forced exit from the premium smartphone market; to the extent the company makes a comeback ( https://stratechery.com/2023/the-huawei-mate-60-pro-7nm-background-implications-and-reactions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL3RoZS1odWF3ZWktbWF0ZS02MC1wcm8tN25tLWJhY2tncm91bmQtaW1wbGljYXRpb25zLWFuZC1yZWFjdGlvbnMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MDE4NzEyNzcsImlhdCI6MTY5OTI3OTI3NywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.vlHDbgwVeXcQ5uYKJhvQ8F8Eml_vnhNr5e_pLongULWBig9oVoxK16-OTRWnB4vPQbZklpQRpg9a-W01TlWKyrGXeShZCmT6vonjLh2oYz8nDZFwoe17uMDVKuNvoGb27PrWSKhyddYR_lpPG2DvV5TW88PrszCXlh68pVHngys1G4ZFlediOwT6JKsYfpCNY86v8U_lIm5GCtI9US3XGjFoa36IuRDRTTm5ZTx36lsMUnUd-WSyzUAcfHrjtLh5rQwuMbWl6PEkOah8r-Ss4xcw7pjxHfWNslF-WXQA48wobB2SHIUDxFqkxMC4W4uJOLPttZI3cz6HRQHRdaB_gQ ) Apple is likely to feel the pain.

China also loomed large in the Mac’s 34% year-over-year decline in sales: thanks to the Shanghai lockdowns in Q2 2022, Apple’s Mac production ground to a halt; that meant major shortages that snapped back in the year ago quarter, making a very tough year-over-year compare. There was also the fact that last quarter saw the launch of a new MacBook Air; Apple’s inconsistency in launching iPads and especially Macs continues to make year-over-year comparisons difficult, although Microsoft, Intel, and AMD’s results all suggest that the PC market has passed its nadir.

The iPhone, meanwhile, continues to take share, which helps drive what was once again the most interesting story in earnings: services, which were the big story last quarter, as well. I wrote at the time ( https://stratechery.com/2023/apple-earnings-openai-gptbot-and-robots-txt-zooms-terms-of-service/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.ntJxbpYwxRy1PoAqY6NX_7zmCahiEzWGBF2K9LColmxBaFVcRuQqAdVpBJFmseLQHumoBUco6mv34ekiuke5it1waZXONZH-jaob58AvvezvJK-wpOImy9jYs-k9PlsFPZMcJp4SqJ6CVhUMsowcMPiwODu3tbHxNwlGDkdRznJXiAK95tayLeeCOtrxbKqk_qYOdzpa0uJJZwH95zUla9ekqTLUF-3E0kGepnIXYOZX8-q19tUJXkfNVrLx7TPVjB2EO_sP18SX19kUNrYErW_VkWb2G0GTXCPvMnSAZN0vPilnS5SH0WbXEGbsAEgmVpp34mmjk3uP1Chht_sobA ) :

That points to the real hero of these earnings: Services. Apple hit a new all-time high in terms of its installed base (again, no one is leaving the iPhone, they’re just putting off buying new ones), and that is leading to continued robust Services growth — 8% year-over-year. It’s worth calling this out, particularly for those of us who have fretted about Apple’s Services push detracting from its product focus: this quarter is one of the best possible counter-arguments, because Services gives space — at least from an investor perspective — for Apple to focus on products, even if their core market is in a bit of a slump.

One other interesting Services-related note: a side effect of a down quarter for products alongside continued Services growth is sky-high gross margins — 44.5% in this case. Services of course have much higher margins than products, but the fact that the overall market for smartphones is slumping helps Apple’s product margins too, because components are a lot cheaper. This is, it must be said, a pretty compelling trick if you can pull it off: it’s basically built-in that slowing top-line growth for Apple means increased profitability.

This story saw an acceleration in the margin story; CFO Luca Maestri reported on the earnings call ( https://seekingalpha.com/article/4646927-apple-inc-aapl-q4-2023-earnings-call-transcript ) :

Company gross margin set a September quarter record at 45.2%, up 70 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage and favorable mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 36.6%, up 120 basis points sequentially, also driven by leverage and mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Services gross margin was 70.9%, up 40 basis points from last quarter due to a different mix.

Maestri’s color on improved product margins was interesting; in addition to the usual commentary about commodity prices, Maestri credited improved financing options:

There are other factors that play a role. For example, the mix of products that we sell. Not every product has the same gross margin profile, and so our guidance, our results are reflective of that. And also, within a specific product category, a lot depends on the kind of models that we sell because they have different margin profiles. I think one of the things that we’ve done well over the last few years is to offer more affordability solutions to our customers in the form of installment plans, trading options, and spend — low-cost financing in general.

And what that has accomplished is reduced the affordability threshold for our customers and therefore, they can, buy at the top of our product ranges. That has been a big factor in the reason for our margin expansion. We don’t provide guidance or color past the current quarter because there’s so many different variables that affect gross margins, but we obviously feel very good about the trajectory that we’ve had in 2023 and now, the guidance that we provide for the beginning of our fiscal ’24. And we need some of these things because, obviously, their foreign exchange environment has been difficult and has been a bit of a drag for us. But net-net, we’re very pleased where we are.

This does, of course, confirm what every nerd has long known: Apple’s upgrade pricing on things like RAM or storage is hilariously overpriced, but necessary given the paltry offerings at the entry level; apparently normal folks have gotten the memo — Apple Stores help here! — and financing helps bridge that gap.

The more interesting story, however, was, as I noted, Services. First, there was a huge increase in Services revenue — 16% year-over-year, and 5% sequentially. Second, there is that reference by Maestri to “a different mix”; that is the only hint, though, because when Maestri was asked about what changed specifically he gave a non-answer answer:

And really then, we step back and we think about why is it that our Services business is doing well and it’s because we have an installed base of customers that continues to grow at a very nice space and the engagement in our ecosystem continues to grow. We have more transacting accounts, we have more paid accounts, we have more subscriptions on the platform and we continue to add. We continue to add content and features. We’re adding a lot of content on TV+, new games on Apple Arcade, new features, new storage plans for iCloud. So it’s a combination of all these things and the fact that the engagement in the ecosystem is improving, and therefore, it benefits every service category.

So just to recap, Apple’s Services revenue saw a step-change increase in revenue with increased margin, and Apple executives don’t want to talk about it. That makes me wonder if the Google search deal — which gives Apple Services revenue with basically 100% margin — was renegotiated recently.

Of course Google didn’t mention anything about this on their earnings call ( https://seekingalpha.com/article/4643107-alphabet-inc-goog-q3-2023-earnings-call-transcript ) , so I went for the crudest indicator possible: mapping Google’s traffic acquisition costs (TAC) versus Apple’s Service revenue:

This is, as I noted, crude: Apple’s Services revenue contains lots of things other than Search revenue, and Google’s TAC is for lots of OEMs and software makers other than Apple; still, there certainly does seem to be a bit of a correlation, and Google’s TAC was in fact meaningfully higher last quarter. That noted, it was barely up sequentially, so maybe I’m barking up the wrong tree (or maybe Google search monetization was simply up in general — remember, Apple earns a revenue share).

Shopify Earnings
----------------

From Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-11-02/shopify-soars-after-third-quarter-sales-profit-beat-estimates ) :

Shopify Inc. reported sales and profit for the third quarter that beat analyst expectations after the Canadian e-commerce giant slashed costs and partnered with Amazon.com Inc. for its fulfillment network. Revenue for the period came in at $1.71 billion, up about 25% year-over-year and beating the $1.68 billion average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit, excluding one-time items, was 24 cents a share, well above the 15 cents expectation…Gross merchandise volume, the overall value of merchant sales across Shopify’s systems, was $56.2 billion, above Wall Street projections of $54.42 billion…

Shopify has been on a drive to turn around its business as it seeks to reverse a late-pandemic slump. Earlier this year it cut more than 2,000 jobs in a second round of job cuts and sold the majority of its logistics unit to Flexport Inc. In late August, it struck a deal to allow merchants on its platform to use Amazon’s “Buy with Prime” service to deliver packages.

Shopify’s financial results were impressive, but what was so striking to me was the clarity and convincing nature of the company’s earnings call ( https://www.fool.com/earnings/call-transcripts/2023/11/02/shopify-shop-q3-2023-earnings-call-transcript/ ). President Harley Finkelstein said in his opening remarks:

We are here to discuss our latest quarterly results, which reflect Shopify’s continued growth and commitment to empowering businesses around the globe. Our Q3 results should be taken as a clear indicator of our ability to reshape Shopify, making us faster, more agile, and ready for sustained profitable growth. GMV was up 22%, revenue was up 25%, gross profit was up 36%, and free cash flow margin was 16%.

Simply put, we executed extremely well in Q3, delivering results that reflect the power of our Merchant First business model and the progress we are making to further solidify Shopify’s position as the global leader in commerce. At Shopify, we excel in the face of change. It’s embedded in our DNA and inspires us to continually learn, innovate, and deliver more products to make commerce better for everyone. In the past six months, I’ve talked about how the wider commerce landscape is rapidly changing and how Shopify has adapted to this, operating with greater discipline and efficiency to ensure our merchants have the tools they need to navigate any macroeconomic environment.

The trust we have built with our merchants combined with our growing scale highlights the power of our platform and gives us increasing opportunities to deliver even more value to our merchants. From small local retailers to large global corporations, Shopify is helping them achieve even greater heights of success. So let’s dive in to the key accomplishments in the quarter as we continue to execute on the massive opportunity ahead, supercharging merchants of all sizes to sell to anyone, anywhere, and always.

Rah-rah talk on an earnings call isn’t exactly breaking news; what does matter is how authentic and realistic this sounded. Rewind just a year or two and Shopify looked like it had challenges on multiple fronts:

* The pandemic-driven e-commerce explosion was receding.
* ATT was hurting Meta advertising, including e-commerce ads, exacerbating a long-running trend of hurting 3rd-party commerce providers.
* Amazon wasn’t just a competitor with superior logistics, but it was actually offering those logistics to Shopify merchants — as long as they used Amazon payments.

All of those problems have been resolved:

* The pandemic comps are in the past, and while it will be a good long while before Shopify reaches its bubble highs, the stock is up around 50% from its pre-pandemic levels.
* Meta has worked through ATT, and both it and Google continue to see strong growth from e-commerce in particular (and not all from Chinese apps ( https://stratechery.com/2023/meta-earnings-reels-reaches-revenue-neutral-the-temu-and-shein-effect/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.ZV0189AYGPeFOOzxVZdAJ2D6ZxUs8T1MCR3kBxQd-T0_h0SSu_LJPAdyf3Npe9tnY4xPTG5AK_RLFaSOPnW9CT6lzG9AvnudOSvii8QIbLPbSKBB0JtAWJQu7IHVeCL2rBEsNMBxHnhyvz1t9LY_abWxBH5EIFKfXq1krU8wLCTPAF8mBwsmcI9jkzcpH1wzT2QHyihEVc76-DnP7ydsUhjnB1-J54VYsyj0bJz65my5vJPoEuHAOjRWZafMsRSOjjCDzNKVp10hU45vF9k68qf1bne0lBIX83e2CCQx-1ksPT4T0yxRJil0ZDL313a1V3rrj2cAcgcdZgCDpzXOGA ) ). Meanwhile, Shopify has partnerships with both for on-platform purchases via Shopify Payments, and an Audiences product that both helps solve the ATT problems and provides a powerful incentive for merchants to upgrade to Shopify Plus ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-earnings-shopify-audiences-the-shop-app/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL3Nob3BpZnktZWFybmluZ3Mtc2hvcGlmeS1hdWRpZW5jZXMtdGhlLXNob3AtYXBwLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzAxODcxMjc3LCJpYXQiOjE2OTkyNzkyNzcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.TSBHsAMl-zPZ2SG2Rx_l3meXvo-NKI2K-yzvYawFEsUPzVl83Rsyngv2LeL_Hhyd8zXO3hzr8dK1QFqhUykImWG8o67574y1r47Fw_31-XfIpR1WpVrBBeA5bweuuyICK2GM5WxLBWhFFnX-4zKLyXw1tsTCMaTTz93EZWiC-X90zzXYkUNX79t6WdL7QU05yKfXVCKnddy9asAiRI_ZHaWAZtCKiIjYhNwhMXTD41ijY6nt0aTNISiupxx7LbsQ-l4g0BYZWjhucIG0377kxahfHskLFWQwuK9QC3ziw9sEJq1V3I7yn76w8dcHB6BTZ_DrlN-70IsaN_7c9TV99g ).
* Amazon and Shopify made a win-win deal ( https://stratechery.com/2023/amazon-and-shopify-shopify-and-its-merchants-the-payments-question/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.GIS4XW2_hgnCHhN3FddwdN_c7x8JhTmrh-nBZta_96FGJubke4q-Yv2ezV8cQN10TE6DYTGgT7_CrZDM3z_Ti50A0gNU808hGtE3TStB9TejccO-f4tW3a8k_8wVGHnwJp41Ox35tsiN9hc5-KGGXtljjZby2kNsGmXo0ecfh5VW5Stgmg80KV3wtatLROumtxQdp5GRXmXyiPbneEDR4OSoKxvm-KWeVb0t2FoLUNZfTVgnuIA6fF4p83zBHh2fvF0RPse19Rh7ONXYJj8Zw9jzotol6jUNo0uxer6fFmRLiTGsOBt7e-TP3imkfIJWMDkwdVXS0cFO08YX2T4ZsQ ) that allows merchants to use “Buy With Prime” with Shopify Payments.

And, perhaps most critical of all, was the decision to abandon Shopify’s own logistics solution ( https://stratechery.com/2023/shopify-exits-logistics-the-shopify-logistics-side-quest-whither-buy-with-prime/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.vhcvUkqG3Tqvn4MnUt2xGnU5y6oVdcHAprlrbsHyu_hxHknEssr-yN0Ic1ECLAP2reKrurG0YmI58ExTpb44z9sV-kQeaByGePLjJ1VSZW5aRSa8bdMe18BkSFV648OlLZQbsCUKb3-ru4w0RR4aV0l7k_y5D1pBJp0kRxes5Mmopwe4MaGGhv02cbu6BSOuQIN3y7bHzh1LpVbEVFdV1rBz8hgTrfYxFTnJIkL6aa5iZA0croEuENooDKZuCH5GRpKY_BkMlbhkRaaDI6Km2OsehnPiB8HmroGXyXfGorU0Qk4aUUOebDL9PkAMoi7V6UahbzD7l_iwA6mmH3WjLA ). This may not have made the biggest difference in terms of financial results — although it certainly helps a lot! — but it strikes me as a big deal in terms of Shopify returning to a clarity of vision and clear road map. Much of this call, in its generalities if not its increasingly-ambitious specifics, particularly in the enterprise space, could have been lifted from calls five years ago, with the talk about ecosystems, flywheels, and centering Shopify as the hub of the many spokes in a merchant’s wheel.

On a somewhat related note, there was one bit in the call that I thought was notable, involving Shopify’s nascent effort to make Shop Pay available on non-Shopify sites; Finkelstein said in response to a question about whether this was intended to be a beachhead for non-Shopify merchants:

Yes. I mean, you sort of nailed it, which is that this really allows us to begin a business relationship with brands and businesses and huge retailers that may not otherwise be ready to fully migrate on to Shopify enterprise, whether it’s Shopify Plus or it’s headless — our Hydrogen product or even commerce components. But Shop Pay off-platform still very much in its early days, but we see that as really the tip of the spear for enterprise, and it allows us to begin a relationship.

But why is Shop Pay in particular so important? Well, right now, it is the highest converting checkout on the internet. More than a 100 million buyers have opted into Shop Pay and it’s already — I mean, the quarter alone, it’s facilitated $12 billion of GMV and a $110 billion cumulative since we launched it. So we know that Shop Pay is consumers’ favorite way to check out from an accelerated perspective. And now, really, what we’re trying to do is continue to make it easier to check out with Shop Pay, add it into things like Shopify point-of-sale, for example, and expand it across more surfaces. But, really, making Shop Pay the preferred accelerated checkout across commerce is the goal here.

And by creating this opportunity for some very large brands to use Shop Pay off-platform, again, the goal is not for them just to use Shop Pay off-platform indefinitely. It’s to begin a business relationship. It’s the same philosophy around commerce components, right? Not everyone wants to use all of Shopify. There are some very large brands that historically didn’t consider Shopify that are now coming on, because they want to use our checkout, which converts 35% better than our competitor or 15% better on average across the entire internet. They want to use Shop Pay or they want to use something with our inventory. They want to use our admin. They want to use point-of-sale. By allowing them to choose certain components of Shopify, we believe over time, they will take more and more components to us, and that’s what Shop Pay off-platform provides us with.

This obviously makes sense strategically for Shopify, and Shop Pay is a great product; what is interesting, though, is why this is even strategically possible. Go back to the “Buy With Prime” saga: Amazon wanted to own payments in part because they needed to control the return experience; Amazon’s ultimate customer is, well, customers, and they have a brand to protect. Shopify’s customer, though, is merchants: they just need to impress their customers with improved payment conversions; if something goes wrong with delivery or returns, that’s not Shopify’s problem, or brand on the line.

Shop Pay, to be fair, is so successful precisely because it is a consumer-facing brand and UX; it is, though, entirely under Shopify’s control, and, crucially, entirely software: that is much more in line with Shopify’s capabilities, obviously; what is less obvious is how efforts that don’t fit that investor-friendly “asset-lite” paradigm can also be operational and strategic constraints, and Shopify is better off without them.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://api.passport.online/api/1.0.0/users/RseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C/channelOptOut?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.hxiCIlO9zx7dxhXrxZ64en3c8Z3TdXMWOGzrghiQeJKXglDnDxQkYFDHO1tZMovUGt9wN-4GWmz02_4pzIo-QYcMCT3tKCwla631FKGoK-pxmZYbaNmohLMW_lKGVWNes2hwoPELtxCNPUe7xPMo8eQ4uLuOxDeErPD_4WmsQXz8gQZoM116PoqEYI_3EyJzqj7woUHJs5wv8ZpcsrfAFCRO0L30UAegK_JkOPCo5uuNgHaHKSbuqN0oTXm0f_o8eW_UIm376mmTNeB6npoEStY2U6JHEK7XaCpilOtc85oJ11KhvDJmTzAC4ARrdoQcN1eN-1jGgcvnw2vACpNs4Q&channel=email&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Fmember%2Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703