# Meta's EU Fine; First-Party versus Third-Party Data, Redux; The EU's First Party Imposition (Stratechery Update 1-11-2023)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Meta's EU Fine; First-Party versus Third-Party Data, Redux; The EU's First Party Imposition (Stratechery Update 1-11-2023)_Wed,_11_Jan_2023_08-59-38_+0000_185a00e7e865d10d.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:18.209009

---

The EU's latest ruling against Meta is different than ATT because it is an attack on first party data and a company's ability to make money.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/metas-eu-fine-first-party-versus-third-party-data-redux-the-eus-first-party-imposition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvbWV0YXMtZXUtZmluZS1maXJzdC1wYXJ0eS12ZXJzdXMtdGhpcmQtcGFydHktZGF0YS1yZWR1eC10aGUtZXVzLWZpcnN0LXBhcnR5LWltcG9zaXRpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzYwMTk1NzgsImlhdCI6MTY3MzQyNzU3OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.q6t16UZFUaHEv0tJMd49F2a_nI_WRcjjp8xjpGW074-aRu3W6nFiSfNy9jrKFo3mQDmwmGwXxaN1hou3zo49nCWON6--TUrgDPfA-1Q3Ou_itXeq3aacZyAoSOx5YOomlt4iPPumUhjF-gMIHfPuvUlNKWx6rwrCEwBYG3njjiZAQ2Bkdy0_o0KUNwmDrPCo9GAbvmT2QHOVbmqGT0DIHcBqAMGdnqgXJZEsmGYJOpEXFrL-bysXbDpv47NOcZo8UXOaPHYVJxq9UBLSQT3Y5A2qAxZ_-F8dyFqKhIj5oFU0C1P_wzlKQPpoX1EwhryuIPaEWihCbo8615dhIW3zgg )

( https://stratechery.com )

Meta's EU Fine; First-Party versus Third-Party Data, Redux; The EU's First Party Imposition

( https://stratechery.com/2023/metas-eu-fine-first-party-versus-third-party-data-redux-the-eus-first-party-imposition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvbWV0YXMtZXUtZmluZS1maXJzdC1wYXJ0eS12ZXJzdXMtdGhpcmQtcGFydHktZGF0YS1yZWR1eC10aGUtZXVzLWZpcnN0LXBhcnR5LWltcG9zaXRpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzYwMTk1NzgsImlhdCI6MTY3MzQyNzU3OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.q6t16UZFUaHEv0tJMd49F2a_nI_WRcjjp8xjpGW074-aRu3W6nFiSfNy9jrKFo3mQDmwmGwXxaN1hou3zo49nCWON6--TUrgDPfA-1Q3Ou_itXeq3aacZyAoSOx5YOomlt4iPPumUhjF-gMIHfPuvUlNKWx6rwrCEwBYG3njjiZAQ2Bkdy0_o0KUNwmDrPCo9GAbvmT2QHOVbmqGT0DIHcBqAMGdnqgXJZEsmGYJOpEXFrL-bysXbDpv47NOcZo8UXOaPHYVJxq9UBLSQT3Y5A2qAxZ_-F8dyFqKhIj5oFU0C1P_wzlKQPpoX1EwhryuIPaEWihCbo8615dhIW3zgg ) Wednesday, January 11, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY )

Good morning,

A quick schedule update: tomorrow’s Interview has been pushed to next week; given that I am actually still on the road, I am going to not publish tomorrow, and make it up to you with an extra post on Monday (which is a federal holiday). I appreciate your understanding, and see you on Monday.

On to the Update:

Meta’s EU Fine
--------------

From Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-04/meta-fined-390-million-ordered-to-change-way-it-processes-ads ) :

Meta Platforms Inc. was hit with €390 million ($414 million) in fines by the European Union’s main privacy watchdog over the way users’ data is used for personalized ads on its Facebook and Instagram units, and given an ultimatum to bring its services in line with EU law. Meta has three months to ensure the processing of such information complies with EU rules, the Irish Data Protection Commission said in a statement on Wednesday. The regulator slapped Facebook with a €210 million-fine, and Instagram a further €180 million after the watchdog concluded that Meta’s terms of service requiring users to accept personalized ads when signing up to the social media services violated EU rules. The Irish watchdog found that Meta “is not entitled to rely on the ‘contract’ legal basis in connection with the delivery of behavioral advertising” on Facebook and Instagram, and that its processing of customer data breaches the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR.

At first glance this seems a bit like the regulatory version of Apple’s App Tracking Transparency (ATT) requirement: the EU is saying that Meta needs to explicitly ask users for permission to use their data for personalized ads instead of wrapping that into the terms of service. Moreover, at least Meta gets to design their own permission dialog, instead of having the wording forced on them as is the case with Apple’s App Tracking Transparency.

Unfortunately for Meta the first glance isn’t quite right.

First-Party and Third-Party Data, Redux
---------------------------------------

ATT requires permission to incorporate data from third parties ; first party data is A-OK as far as Apple is concerned. I explained this distinction in Data and Definitions ( https://stratechery.com/2022/data-and-definitions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvZGF0YS1hbmQtZGVmaW5pdGlvbnMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzYwMTk1NzgsImlhdCI6MTY3MzQyNzU3OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.T2p9sHnrOdMpNeWXCabg3aUKvntCaw0waxRQ-EOqwWIB21vtWuE6csYGadTenqQNYgZcnAJP3SkW5ZO_rdo9WFu2OfHxDYGx13BWTyBs414_T51u2oGRgR8fPFYsfmeuDRpfIQN4ASWoNOvdD80TKUEvEhjiiYgrumHrWT_0WQ32WPvjf0q21S8ZkUsgPWcB5-n1hCRqjxbpPTcExWWQaNLsxDuyRm6Hys10N035xUH0jqyCHd6_BgPceADuZ3OTQBvKFYovtzvxPX3kAWNblBjAlquC53gZXQrFHUBKmlpEjWFibfAc-fQxDwa1HRjjqEoQ5RoRwy28tLt1r5qabw ) (the quotes-within-a-quote are from Apple’s Advertising & Policy ( https://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/data/en/apple-advertising/ ) page):

Apple’s advertising platform does not track you, meaning that it does not link user or device data collected from our apps with user or device data collected from third parties for targeted advertising or advertising measurement purposes, and does not share user or device data with data brokers.

“Tracking” is not a neutral term! My strong suspicion — confirmed by anecdata — is that a lot of the most ardent defenders of Apple’s ATT policy are against targeted advertising as a category, which is to say they are against companies collecting data and using that data to target ads. For these folks I would imagine tracking means exactly that: the collection and use of data to target ads. That certainly seems to align with the definition of “track” from macOS’s built-in dictionary: “Follow the course or trail of (someone or something), typically in order to find them or note their location at various points”.

However, this is not Apple’s definition: tracking is only when data Apple collects is linked with data from third parties for targeted advertising or measurement, or when data is shared/sold to data brokers. In other words, data that Apple collects and uses for advertising is, according to Apple, not tracking; the privacy policy helpfully lays out exactly what that data is…

Just to put a fine point on this: according to Apple’s definition, collecting demographic information, downloads/purchases/subscriptions, and browsing behavior in Apple’s apps, and using that data to deliver targeted ads, is not tracking, because all of the data is Apple’s (and by extension, neither is Google’s collection and use of data from Safari search results, or Amazon’s collection and use of data from its app; however, a developer associating an in-app purchase with a Facebook ad is).

I think this definition is certainly self-serving on Apple’s part; the line they are drawing is a meaningless one in practice that, in my estimation, does little more than harm small businesses that are uniquely enabled by Meta. Again from Data and Definitions :

Meta doesn’t sell data; it collects it, and the third parties that leverage the company’s platforms for advertising very much prefer it that way. Personal Identifiable Information (PII) is like radioactive material: it’s very valuable, and can certainly be leveraged, but it’s also difficult to handle and can be dangerous to not just the users identified but to the companies holding it. The way Meta works is that its collective advertising base has effectively deputized the company to collect data on their behalf; that data is not exposed directly, but is instead used to deliver targeted advertisements that are by-and-large bought not by targeting specific criteria, but rather by specifying desired results: app installs, e-commerce conversions, etc. Everything user-related is, to the companies buying the ads, a complete black box.

This is where linking comes in: apps or websites that leverage Facebook advertising (or any other relevant advertising platform, like Snap) include a Facebook SDK or Pixel that tracks installs, sales, etc., and sends that data to Meta where it can be linked to an ad that was shown to that user. Again, this is completely invisible to the developer or merchant; technically they are sending data to Meta, since the conversion data was collected in their app or on their website, but in reality it is Meta collecting that data and sending it to themselves.

The reason why developers and merchants are happy with this arrangement is that advertising is a scale business: you need a lot of data and a lot of customers to make targeted advertising work, and no single developer or website has as much scale as, say, a Google or an Amazon; Meta et al enable all of these smaller developers and merchants to effectively work together without having to know each other, or share data.

( https://stratechery.com/2022/data-and-definitions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvZGF0YS1hbmQtZGVmaW5pdGlvbnMvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzYwMTk1NzgsImlhdCI6MTY3MzQyNzU3OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.T2p9sHnrOdMpNeWXCabg3aUKvntCaw0waxRQ-EOqwWIB21vtWuE6csYGadTenqQNYgZcnAJP3SkW5ZO_rdo9WFu2OfHxDYGx13BWTyBs414_T51u2oGRgR8fPFYsfmeuDRpfIQN4ASWoNOvdD80TKUEvEhjiiYgrumHrWT_0WQ32WPvjf0q21S8ZkUsgPWcB5-n1hCRqjxbpPTcExWWQaNLsxDuyRm6Hys10N035xUH0jqyCHd6_BgPceADuZ3OTQBvKFYovtzvxPX3kAWNblBjAlquC53gZXQrFHUBKmlpEjWFibfAc-fQxDwa1HRjjqEoQ5RoRwy28tLt1r5qabw )

You can, to be clear, object to this arrangement, but it’s worth pointing out that this is very different than selling or sharing data with data brokers; all of the data is in one place and one place only, which is broadly similar to the situation with Google or Amazon (or Apple, as I’ll get to in a moment). The big difference is that Meta doesn’t own all of the customer touch points: whereas a Meta advertiser may own their own Shopify website, an Amazon advertiser has to list their goods on Amazon’s site, with all of the loss of control that entails. Apple’s definition, though, lumps Meta’s approach (which again, is representative of other platforms like Snap) in with the worst actors in the space.

Let me re-emphasize the point in the last paragraph: I totally understand and respect the pro-Apple argument here. As I said above, I think it is a distinction that is meaningless in practice, but it is a valid distinction: first-party and third-party data are indeed different things.

The EU’s First Party Imposition
-------------------------------

Here is the key thing to understand about this EU ruling: it is not about third -party data; it’s about first -party data. The following quotes are from the Data Protection Commission (DPC) ( https://dataprotection.ie/en/news-media/data-protection-commission-announces-conclusion-two-inquiries-meta-ireland ) , which summarized the overall course of this case:

In advance of 25 May 2018, Meta Ireland had changed the Terms of Service for its Facebook and Instagram services. It also flagged the fact that it was changing the legal basis on which it relies to legitimise its processing of users’ personal data. (Under Article 6 of the GDPR, data processing is lawful only if and to the extent that it complies with one of six identified legal bases). Having previously relied on the consent of users to the processing of their personal data in the context of the delivery of the Facebook’s and Instagram’s services (including behavioural advertising), Meta Ireland now sought to rely on the “contract” legal basis for most (but not all) of its processing operations.

If they wished to continue to have access to the Facebook and Instagram services following the introduction of the GDPR, existing (and new) users were asked to click “I accept” to indicate their acceptance of the updated Terms of Service. (The services would not be accessible if users declined to do so).

Meta Ireland considered that, on accepting the updated Terms of Service, a contract was entered into between Meta Ireland and the user. It also took the position that the processing of users’ data in connection with the delivery of its Facebook and Instagram services was necessary for the performance of that contract, to include the provision of personalised services and behavioural advertising, so that such processing operations were lawful by reference to Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR (the “contract” legal basis for processing).

The complainants contended that, contrary to Meta Ireland’s stated position, Meta Ireland was in fact still looking to rely on consent to provide a lawful basis for its processing of users’ data. They argued that, by making the accessibility of its services conditional on users accepting the updated Terms of Service, Meta Ireland was in fact “forcing” them to consent to the processing of their personal data for behavioural advertising and other personalised services. The complainants argued that this was in breach of the GDPR.

GDPR mandated that apps get permission to use user data for personalized advertising; Meta’s argument is that using first-party user data for advertising is integral to the service, and thus they can make access to their services contingent upon agreeing to letting one’s data be used for advertising. The complaint is that this is illegally “forcing” users to let their data be used for personalized advertising.

Ten of the 47 CSAs [ Concerned Supervisory Authorities ] raised objections in relation to other elements of the draft decisions (one of which was subsequently withdrawn in the case of the draft decision relating to the Facebook service). In particular, this subset of CSAs took the view that Meta Ireland should not be permitted to rely on the contract legal basis on the grounds that the delivery of personalised advertising (as part of the broader suite of personalised services offered as part of the Facebook and Instagram services) could not be said to be necessary to perform the core elements of what was said to be a much more limited form of contract.

The DPC disagreed, reflecting its view that the Facebook and Instagram services include, and indeed appear to be premised on, the provision of a personalised service that includes personalised or behavioural advertising. In effect, these are personalised services that also feature personalised advertising. In the view of the DPC, this reality is central to the bargain struck between users and their chosen service provider, and forms part of the contract concluded at the point at which users accept the Terms of Service.

Following a consultation process, it became clear that a consensus could not be reached. Consistent with its obligations under the GDPR, the DPC next referred the points in dispute to the European Data Protection Board (“the EDPB”)…The EDPB took a different view on the “legal basis” question, finding that, as a matter of principle, Meta Ireland was not entitled to rely on the “contract” legal basis as providing a lawful basis for its processing of personal data for the purpose of behavioural advertising.

In short, Meta can not make access to its personalized social media services contingent on accepting personalized advertising; moreover, the company was fined for having done just that, despite the fact their regulator agreed with them that that was acceptable.

I find this decision disturbing for two reasons. First, it seems unduly punitive that Meta can be fined a material amount for an approach that is not only reasonable on its face (more on this in a moment), but also one that its primary regulator agreed was appropriate. GDPR is not clear on this point, and it’s ridiculous that a company can be retroactively fined for not reading the minds of EU bureacrats.

Second, and more importantly, the fact that Meta must offer personalized social networking to users — which uses their data! — but cannot tie that to offering personalized ads — which uses their data in the exact same way, and without sharing or selling that data to advertisers — is a completely arbitrary attack on Meta’s ability to do business. Let me reiterate that point: serving a video or a post in your Facebook feed is no different from serving an ad; it is Facebook that is choosing what to serve you, not an advertiser, who has no access to users or their data. It’s all just bits, it just so happens that some of those bits make Meta money. That, apparently, is the crime here (and a callback to the Google Shopping case ( https://stratechery.com/2017/ends-means-and-antitrust/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTcvZW5kcy1tZWFucy1hbmQtYW50aXRydXN0LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc2MDE5NTc4LCJpYXQiOjE2NzM0Mjc1NzgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.QunysozvOUFOyPNyti9HQGnISMwu1AOA1k6WGBQ1CAxo1nKzx0JT0oi3a6pNrb_b3_zmcIeG7Xfbs0vxo3ehgGGFaZ-hXPdxywb_qv_AIDFcBWXT2709QhIZscSYDhxwNv6vhWD3gqkHNIESCtuh9IpNIiwZMGsjJ_he0JKrPlE3odd9ws_t3hVDwgXOQta7dpMrm-SsD16NqBv2dQvV0kFjdl52MhkxSU__bD9fC2nIMFj1tBvgsfWbmPkAJWjABxpdUfEs_APaEuYVRHglaCAOFESOB1P18rYA9sw0hGi6hZ0j4MZ6M8uCJESgB0wa19HR-g5G_YdoTHAv-TNVcw ) ).

Moreover, the impact of this decision is likely to be far broader than even ATT, because while ATT spared Google (ex-YouTube), Amazon, Apple, etc., all of those companies use first-party data for advertising (Apple does ask for permission to show personalized ads). Absent explicit user permission independent of signing up for an ad-supported service (which, in any functional market, would entail understanding and accepting that you are not entitled to said company’s offerings and are making a transaction) — or finding some other loophole in GDPR, which seems like a very risky bet given the retroactive nature of these fines — the only advertising that is apparently allowed in the EU is un-targeted advertising. That’s good for multinational corporations built around TV advertising ( https://stratechery.com/2016/tv-advertisings-surprising-strength-and-inevitable-fall/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTYvdHYtYWR2ZXJ0aXNpbmdzLXN1cnByaXNpbmctc3RyZW5ndGgtYW5kLWluZXZpdGFibGUtZmFsbC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY3NjAxOTU3OCwiaWF0IjoxNjczNDI3NTc4LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.pqdN3kiMm8Av3jMh-Df9Sbeuf7d4Pg5TufeD0RAMB0QOyz9BQujPaASU6xmI9oKr6QQTNz6nlr1jHMw8MmWhRG1ipgzLMtRV5DkJzc6i1f_TQ1B7mq3F52yf0omWZR659STawtmCYavaZo3wCzZWT6sao910ZncpGUPA-unZYwJonChYc1K3YHumMobMuIvDkRTkerpD4USw2wLIU9_FyDBqtO5NfY2aJcvdcq7Cfh6E4cOHskoiQBxIw3Haesn4pf6KTYiy5FStb072q0QWIfv1QGklfRxGEIk8pvolRwOjlQH8xDhRwhj9aBg7CgRkGO-F58emSaTX88BZAt-MAA ) , and basically no one else.

Anyhow, the decision is what it is. Meta will appeal, but in the meantime will likely craft some sort of message asking users to opt-in; if they don’t, well, their ads will suck, Meta’s business will suffer, and the sort of businesses uniquely enabled by the Internet will effectively cede the European market to the same big companies that have dominated the last 70 years.

The one saving grace could be AI: if Meta’s AI gets really good at understanding context it may be able to serve somewhat personalized ads without any explicit user information; I’m not entirely clear on how that would work, or be adjudicated with EU regulators, but to the extent it does, it will only cement the long-term moat ( https://stratechery.com/2022/meta-myths/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvbWV0YS1teXRocy8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY3NjAxOTU3OCwiaWF0IjoxNjczNDI3NTc4LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.fEoJvddnZ4EFEyNV3f-GbsjAJZXM_fsKDUH4zcsfRRXwGYJglJDBgnm1nA79NqaE2XNhBGNZcgGqiZGr_psD2xn7jNCCx-4IJUI_k5LZkdaiD0QEst9KRYY9Dgc2dw4GeHe0EtVCHs-p2pyZbihjFzRGFO06GtmOIsIy0mHg7vq8nzpyqFNjKpZoLNOPoYo7ShtGC9Bbgh71B9Um6zb6YhD8GWp2uBARgGHxoRnD0LBWrI-kYJKWjMt59ZXjaaJZCgpAIpEkQDvM886wokHeaRsWubfP1-Z3mdfb8iLX1m7xjPYN5gF9vsZj0nWWRMyAMPmgOP_WMokb2fjqrXDldg ) that Meta has by sheer force of its ability to spend on compute. Even in the best case scenario, though, it is small businesses that exist by virtue of their ability to find their niche that will have the hardest time making AI advertising work.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: December 8, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703