# Mistral, Microsoft's Investment, Generative AI and Customer Support (Stratechery Update 2-28-2024)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Mistral, Microsoft's Investment, Generative AI and Customer Support (Stratechery Update 2-28-2024)_Wed,_28_Feb_2024_13-34-18_+0000_18defec642e5f115.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:21.993539

---

Mistral is building foundational models in Europe, but Microsoft's investment is a reminder that GPU is still the point of leverage. Then, customer support is an obvious AI use case that is already gaining traction.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2024/mistral-microsofts-investment-generative-ai-and-customer-support/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21pc3RyYWwtbWljcm9zb2Z0cy1pbnZlc3RtZW50LWdlbmVyYXRpdmUtYWktYW5kLWN1c3RvbWVyLXN1cHBvcnQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MTE3MTkyNTgsImlhdCI6MTcwOTEyNzI1OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.HRyO7exNYnzgCzQYqZgwmZHg5dGLI8OfqJnhdoSG8qli0GbP1dIZrbJX-i9aQrGw1inqXyr1Kg7lnSOU3QY8gvPbipQQwJ2SnqHV1S8b5k9wJozikFkslgRKgot66QFHskPqQ7HOhKRD5FcyUeA8jQRz3ixD3ykwx2zru9w4gNKQH7OsJujPfrb_cD6SmoezwSqVlnccTjaYIkUGxD7Pj5aivtpyM938gvVOOw7Nlhnkyl9YCZ5IHJr0rjNh3gIkfUwy3y1X2MubbTZiaHwD3Nuqoh_rWN1otpBjr5Bbyc07NQBLDQiHsN8dx0TuqLTuvgxAbVW-iqxVYxKx4gwetQ )

( https://stratechery.com )

Mistral, Microsoft's Investment, Generative AI and Customer Support

( https://stratechery.com/2024/mistral-microsofts-investment-generative-ai-and-customer-support/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L21pc3RyYWwtbWljcm9zb2Z0cy1pbnZlc3RtZW50LWdlbmVyYXRpdmUtYWktYW5kLWN1c3RvbWVyLXN1cHBvcnQvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MTE3MTkyNTgsImlhdCI6MTcwOTEyNzI1OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.HRyO7exNYnzgCzQYqZgwmZHg5dGLI8OfqJnhdoSG8qli0GbP1dIZrbJX-i9aQrGw1inqXyr1Kg7lnSOU3QY8gvPbipQQwJ2SnqHV1S8b5k9wJozikFkslgRKgot66QFHskPqQ7HOhKRD5FcyUeA8jQRz3ixD3ykwx2zru9w4gNKQH7OsJujPfrb_cD6SmoezwSqVlnccTjaYIkUGxD7Pj5aivtpyM938gvVOOw7Nlhnkyl9YCZ5IHJr0rjNh3gIkfUwy3y1X2MubbTZiaHwD3Nuqoh_rWN1otpBjr5Bbyc07NQBLDQiHsN8dx0TuqLTuvgxAbVW-iqxVYxKx4gwetQ ) Wednesday, February 28, 2024

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

Monday’s episode of Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/ai-and-the-big-five-google-and-the-ongoing-gemini-catastrophe-the-stakes-or-lack-thereof-for-chatbot-output ) covered Google Gemini, as did the last two episodes of Dithering ( https://dithering.fm/ ). You can add both podcasts to your podcast player using the links at the bottom of this email.

On to the update:

Mistral
-------

The Wall Street Journal ( https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/the-9-month-old-ai-startup-challenging-silicon-valleys-giants-ee2e4c48 ) had a profile of Mistral, the French AI startup building foundation models:

This time last year, Arthur Mensch was 30, still employed at a Google unit here, and artificial intelligence had just started to take off in the public consciousness as something more than science fiction. Since then, so-called generative AI that can converse—and possibly reason—like humans has become the most talked-about technology breakthrough in decades. And the startup Mensch left Google to launch, now all of nine months old, is valued at slightly more than $2 billion…Mensch’s startup, called Mistral AI, is challenging the conventional wisdom that the winners of the AI race will emerge from among the tech industry’s U.S. giants. Mensch, who founded the company with two engineering-school friends, doesn’t think enormous scale is essential — or that the U.S. will necessarily dominate.

Mensch’s company, which has raised just over $500 million from investors including Andreessen Horowitz, remains tiny compared with the Goliaths of the industry. Microsoft-backed OpenAI and Alphabet’s Google are pouring billions of dollars into training the latest AI systems, leveraging their access to the specialized computer chips needed to build such systems and the fat balance sheets needed to pay for the electricity those chips consume. Mistral, named for a strong wind that blows from France, is founded in part on the idea that a lot of that money is being wasted.

Mensch, who started in academia, has spent much of his life figuring out how to make AI and machine-learning systems more efficient. Early last year, he joined forces with co-founders Timothée Lacroix, 32, and Guillaume Lample, 33, who were then at Meta Platforms’ artificial-intelligence lab in Paris. Together, they are betting that their small team can outmaneuver Silicon Valley titans by finding more efficient ways to build and deploy AI systems. And they want to do it in part by giving away many of their AI systems as open-source software. “We want to be the most capital-efficient company in the world of AI,” Mensch said. “That’s the reason we exist.”

Mensch made his name at Google with the Chinchilla AI model, which demonstrated that you could achieve superior results from a model with relatively fewer parameters (i.e. smaller) that was trained on relatively more data. Mistral also reportedly is extremely focused on the quality of data used to train its models; I’ve written in the past about the fact that transformers can be trained on relatively poor data ( https://stratechery.com/2022/the-ai-unbundling/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL3RoZS1haS11bmJ1bmRsaW5nLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzExNzE5MjU4LCJpYXQiOjE3MDkxMjcyNTgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.LvB8cPYmPqi_oaZ3JWhiJ7rZmkc9zmoiImXkbZCJicCXCmdGf4k223RM6c0ZNtPlzQ6_UFplJFkPAtGyHsllTw_4ZXGhtHsatdCzLZLl3vAX-ObncVfK2_oaaYfP_7gCpQRxd3kuOM2Ur8O_W7BQ05iTtsGHkbE2e3G9Bl0nl_IJgIkD2m6W9cOQUV0g8TmYU4N2PiZnM4d90i0cMo0Ij_66ci4ndD7ZOlDFKcVbelxmAC9SSX03BckmGx9k11vtrFvieS48Y0BxItV3-x8kPzlONN6kOBjZUbh5xyFgyNMpQuLhvNTTOXrjcxIqlaS1WxWARa6sxTBvLxuJUmvwQA ) , but it turns out that better data very much makes for better models that are cheaper to build and serve.

It’s also notable that Mistral is based in France; Mensch has already played an important role in persuading the French government to push for less restrictive regulation on foundation models by the E.U.; more broadly, Mistral is perhaps the biggest hope for a European tech giant. Mistral is doing its part: the company has released multiple models, most of them open source, which are generally thought to outperform direct competitors (primarily Meta’s Llama), and this week the company released a large model (that it has not open-sourced) that is GPT-4 competitive.

Microsoft’s Investment
----------------------

Mistral’s large model wasn’t the only news it announced this week; that Wall Street Journal article included this tidbit:

The industry is taking note. Mistral has attracted interest from corporate clients and investors, including Microsoft, which on Monday said that it is adding Mistral’s new model as an option for developers on its Azure cloud service. As part of the multiyear deal, Microsoft will take a small stake in the company.

Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-02-27/microsoft-s-mistral-ai-investment-to-be-examined-by-eu-watchdog ) reported more details:

Mistral announced a “strategic partnership” with Microsoft on Monday that includes making the startup’s latest artificial intelligence models available to customers of Microsoft’s Azure cloud. Microsoft said the investment amounted to €15 million ($16.3 million)…Microsoft’s investments will convert into equity as part of Mistral’s next funding round.

Mistral’s last round valued the company at $2.1 billion, which would put Microsoft’s share at less than 1%; however, the next round is likely to be substantially more, so the actual percentage will be even less. The E.U. is already threatening to investigate the investment ( https://www.ft.com/content/cd6eb51a-3276-450f-87fd-97e8410db9eb ) , like it is Microsoft’s investment in OpenAI, but that seems pretty unnecessary given the size of the stake.

Still, the fact the investment exists is notable: this is a very logical response by Microsoft to last fall’s upheaval at OpenAI ( https://stratechery.com/2023/openais-misalignment-and-microsofts-gain/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL29wZW5haXMtbWlzYWxpZ25tZW50LWFuZC1taWNyb3NvZnRzLWdhaW4vIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MTE3MTkyNTgsImlhdCI6MTcwOTEyNzI1OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.GHxkg79B8BEZACVNc8vUJPyV_ndUpiz3dz_JJbzeXH4BPtrcXG3-vjY17N7_ULngjUUcT4R0so3K256jqIivjFjud_CNOUsa5sD4yMto-LW0HoJ1y5i36ZhVoyyYrolCICiKjDWJequlAONfMfGMTrDwsGS-YI7FFp1kaBV_XOqSaM0BT2YApgCi0XuIcgjN738mBVX1AWyZtH_nO4fPIv6gw2MnebUH5BihglK2MLxefn0XbOUwhkTWABhREYKCYvM7TeQi3HRD8akH3YjgOKUjy4E7f30pluPRMrED8KccBhPrHQdoVnUjqzk4yeXM5OFj05rnZfqCDRm1vQy5Lw ). Microsoft is making massive investments in both Azure and in its products around AI that it doesn’t control, and the best alternative to not owning the AI undergirding both is to hedge its bets by increasing the number of suppliers. The important thing — which was revealed during that episode — is that Microsoft has leverage because it owns GPUs. From an Update ( https://stratechery.com/2023/sam-altman-back-at-openai-q-going-forward/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIzL3NhbS1hbHRtYW4tYmFjay1hdC1vcGVuYWktcS1nb2luZy1mb3J3YXJkLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzExNzE5MjU4LCJpYXQiOjE3MDkxMjcyNTgsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.eOgbi2Fpk-mPvtvh_ofbnapAYQ2LdBzAK5ZBYhD6jARQOlIWNnabRwD_Rcjc56BJxOm83Zfg2UhIAZXRCyS94BuW3vyreC1_m9WOKtoHhS9UsvSB_oZQBt1EvNllaPc9BnBJt94xfmkFLf992RPMsM0-5XcK68Yuc6CghQVcVA2ZcR1veFOQYgG4pnuqj74_wVxo6sEey19dYmsu_G8qT8BP_zRAziQYjrftekBYL15wUgEf0CtjifJIloJDwoOlJ7Vklwoy5xW9l93iVHWnS6u1IGi_U8NG8tdRh4eQPcWhoDCxIfrpcHpZpRB4BQOfZjQjryV1cZAjOhlVnAYrEw ) after the dust had settled:

What this does re-emphasize is that Microsoft, for all of the criticism they arguably deserve for basing the company’s technical future on a partner with such an inherently unstable structure, ultimately held the trump cards because of its combination of compute capacity and access to OpenAI IP; “he who controls the GPUs controls the universe”, at least for now, which is why Microsoft got what they wanted: Altman as CEO and OpenAI’s employees back at work.

Microsoft’s products are still being built around OpenAI, to be clear; the short-term outcome of this agreement is that Mistral will be available to developers as a part of Azure’s Models-as-a-Service. Building that out, though, also moves Microsoft down the road to switching over, should the need some day arise.

This also, I should note, calls into question the idea that Mistral is going to be a European champion to rival the American tech companies. Foundation models matter hugely, but it’s not clear that they are going to be a sustainable point of differentiation; right now what matters is having GPUs, which by-and-large means the contenders are Microsoft, Google, and Amazon.

To that end, I think it is notable that Amazon didn’t make a deal with Mistral first; on one hand, this does seem like a miss, given that Amazon doesn’t own a widely-used foundational model. On the other hand, Amazon’s play is to serve everyone, and its own managed service, Bedrock, just announced it is adding Mistral ( https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/aws/mistral-ai-amazon-bedrock ). Why invest if you are going to get the model regardless? Microsoft has a more pressing need for some degree of control, however small, because it is using AI in its core products, in addition to Azure; that need is worth a lot.

Generative AI and Customer Support
----------------------------------

Yesterday I noted ( https://stratechery.com/2024/nvidia-earnings-inference-and-meta/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI0L252aWRpYS1lYXJuaW5ncy1pbmZlcmVuY2UtYW5kLW1ldGEvIl19LCJleHAiOjE3MTE3MTkyNTgsImlhdCI6MTcwOTEyNzI1OCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcGkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCBlbnRpdGxlbWVudHMiLCJzdWIiOiJSc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDIiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.Yrp_z-l4AMZdt8lMde41sFcwequO1VARYNPatxLl33oY9IwRLrl-qktO-gWUKZ7-EoYqEn_llJDXJpJKCWCFLOr_tlJ4hC3OVKk7BSXakeWo1DC_EsR_LFt-ISN_sBcFLzdjz7-aavpX-W3ApqLfKvpPi3OTz40ftbwUXloxBn5DUmFRHK5vqPwUcWn3LynKrO8Sn6PqgiLhRNppsvuep1_tXBmqJamsOpadPomRdVFFyiJxH2oMJtjBZxvywRJ4Kwp-01O6azLmTu8kDDJPdFrkf7o2CtboBSRzHwr9gbUfAzB6NRu1D2gHD7--G6OlsNvRgviBK37o-wR9basgfA ) that generative AI use cases may not have materialized quite to the extent that Nvidia’s earnings indicated; that said, there have two been two recent bits of news that speak to an area where generative AI is both obviously useful and in fact already having an impact.

First is ServiceNow; ServiceNow is a cloud platform for managing IT services, and has gradually expanded since its founding twenty years ago to be a comprehensive enterprise platform for all sorts of backend functions; the company moved quickly to incorporate generative AI into its products, and is already reaping the rewards. From SiliconAngle ( https://siliconangle.com/2024/01/24/servicenow-beats-guidance-metrics-generative-ai-powers-strong-growth/ ) :

Workflow software company ServiceNow Inc. posted stellar fourth-quarter results today, while its guidance for the first quarter and full year came in well ahead of estimates. Officials said the strong results were driven at least partly by the company’s aggressive rollout of artificial intelligence capabilities within its core software offerings…The company delivered results that came in ahead of Wall Street’s guidance on almost every metric, with subscription revenue coming to $2.365 billion, up 27% from a year earlier and ahead of the forecast of $2.32 billion. Total revenue came to $2.437 billion, beating the consensus estimate of $2.402 billion. Earnings before certain costs such as stock compensation came to $3.11 per share, beating the consensus of $2.78 by a comfortable margin. The company’s adjusted operating margin was 29%, ahead of the Street’s forecast of 27.5%. Finally, current remaining performance obligations came to $8.6 billion, up 24%, higher than the forecast of a 21% gain.

McDermott told Barron’s in an interview that the company is getting close to hitting the $10 billion annual subscription revenue run-rate milestone, thanks to the incorporation of so many AI features in its products. He added that many of the new features were rolled out in September, and have already delivered a material impact on the company’s bottom line. “We’re seeing the largest net new contract contribution of any product we have ever introduced,” he said.

Second is Klarna, the buy-now-pay-later company; from Fast Company ( https://www.fastcompany.com/91039401/klarna-ai-virtual-assistant-does-the-work-of-700-humans-after-layoffs ) :

One month after taking its OpenAI-powered virtual assistant global, the Swedish buy-now, pay-later company has released new data touting its ability to handle customer communications, make shoppers happier, and even drive better financial results.

The app-based AI chatbot already handles two-thirds of all customer service chats, the company said Tuesday — some 2.3 million conversations so far — with the virtual assistant earning customer satisfaction ratings at the same level as human agents. Klarna, which is expected to go public this year and will need all the hype it can get at a time when investors have been generally frosty toward IPOs, estimates that the chatbot could help improve its profits by $40 million in 2024…Klarna boasted in its announcement on Tuesday that the AI assistant “is doing the equivalent work of 700 full-time agents.”

Klarna is still a private company, so all numbers should be taken with the appropriate grain of salt, but this story is certainly believable: customer support is, for a human, a pretty low throughput job that is only viable if it is fairly low paid. This means the barrier for generative AI to be better is fairly low: the cost advantage is already massive, and the hurdle rate in terms of mistakes-per-interaction is pretty low. I would expect these particular use cases — especially customer support, both internal and external — to be quickly dominated by generative AI. The utility is just so obvious, along with the potential cost savings.

More broadly, I suspect that AI is already having more of an impact on business than is being measured: what is happening currently is that some number of employees are effectively arbitraging AI, in that they are using AI to do their job far more quickly and efficiently without reporting as such; the task for companies over the coming quarters will be to capture that efficiency by making AI “official” as it were. Or, to put it another way, while recommender systems may have been the inference that mattered last year, generative AI will likely swamp that sooner rather than later.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: December 8, 2024

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FRseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.lFOyM3JMOTt0uC6_dfJH8OvFriUis-5QqH01eeUpomuqEICYP2lwZS3oOZk6-5ZboycSnIDv08B67CLXgJB1t3fwyz3B-DRlGENik0E-R6u65jUU0oqJgGcW7edtVXPpQnBt3Nv3ifJdCZjS2OA2tN_DuSrSVc-PMJnZmXEY8PYTwKCGnEIjrD12OqqPOokIcOU1ZYrEZEjrhkzQi4UBGM-nOrtvH3LbnJOLl3Sk4osnQHdgv7PYZABSTPXsIcA74CGXxCcAdx7H7fvolsjryqsQukZkErHYn8ykXeuQph9XNf7jcjFHru5tipkwVAQ_LxfZzvjfNnX_7zFCSvNH3A%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2024 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703