# Ramp: The Card-Sized Finance Team

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Ramp The Card-Sized Finance Team_Thu,_17_Dec_2020_13-56-02_+0000_17670ff15f99f793.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:53:59.586522

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMtuhDAMRb9msgPlQYBZZDGb_gYKiYF0yEOJaUW_vikjtapky5Kv7Kt7jEZYYz5VigXJUSBPzirW81HI7k6s6iwb5UhcmZYM4LXbFeYDSDrm3RmNLobrglIuyaYWuNvF0HHgzIxyEfehG4RhAgZmezCW_PhM-rAOggEFH5DPGIDsakNM5SYeN_5WK0ScY3ZhbcsxF9Tm2Zroq5BqZ-1Tgxs0RmfbFPcFtllc0PVjg6A9cYpTThlnAxOyp7xl7TsVfF2fSWZ766hf-b_HJKtfxyo_N-1hv4Sac6rTH8HhOUHQ8w72hQBf0K5EeCZQAT7LDoiQX8vKhcte0I5KUt1srPjCn9E3TWaC-Q

Welcome to the 1,497 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Thursday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 26,100 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEFuxCAMfM1ya0RwyCYHDr30GxEBJ0s3AQSmVX5fNpFaVbJlySPPeMZowjWkQ8WQiZWMaXJWtb0YQHYjs6qz7SAH5vK0JMRdu01RKshimTdnNLngzwvOhWQPBQhwBzNqmG1vlqWfcRxh6JYFONjhzl46ky7WoTeo8AvTETyyTT2IYr7B-0181PKB5pCcX5tc5kzaPBsT9grE2knv8e3FEZhTggveivbeguy5aNrmk4NY12eUyd46vq_iHwVL6pe7ws-H3nE7gepoqnMv3tExodfzhvYyS1c85-90RFQev_OGRJiuZU1AyB54xyWrajbUoPyf0A8ioHrk] or on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtOwzAURL8mXkZ-5MXCCxAUECCklk3ZRI59k5gkdrCdpvl73HaBdKWRZnR1NCNFgM66jc_WB7R4cLVWnBS0Ynl2hxTPFKnyCmlftw5gEnrkwS2A5qUZtRRBW3P9wJjmqOclI5jKtsEtg0qShuVYVky0oigoEWWLLpxaLEqDkcDhBG6zBtDI-xBmn7D7hO7i2RlM6mcbdLul0k7R8r1doxQDOb4_nD73-4_N-reNncn5dUzYzuuEPdbf5aRA_n4dDke39i9wXp-f7pHmFFNMKCkJywtMU5L-YEa7bphzp5IMTx1N_dL4IORw4SHHjQ2Nddp0MR56McF4DWLxOuq0GB22GoxoRlC3TcJtxWvFsM3ADax-hBDA3cw4FM0LhjOco0hTNu5p_kF_4j2HYQ].
This week’s Not Boring is brought to you by… 
Ramp is the corporate card that actually saves your business money. Sign up and deploy in fifteen minutes, earn 1.5% cash back, let Ramp proactively find your business savings, and get everything that Expensify does (and more)… for free. 
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Thursday! This is the last Thursday email I’m sending this year.  
Over the course of the year, I’ve found a nice rhythm: Mondays are for deep dives for big, public companies or pieces on general trends I’m noticing that I think are particularly impactful. Thursdays are for learning more about companies at a much earlier stage that are shaping and building into those trends. We do that in a couple of ways: 
Not Boring Investment Memos. Public-facing investment memos on companies that the Not Boring Syndicate invests in, together, to demystify early stage fundraising.
Sponsored Deep Dives. Companies pay me to help tell their story (I got mouths to feed!). 
When I rolled out the Sponsored Deep Dive with MainStreet [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEluwzAMfE10s6HVcQ869NJvGFpoR40tCRLVwr-vkgAtCpAgwCE5w3EGYUvl1DlVJK1CWYLXbOKzUPKNeC09m9VMQl3WAnCYsGssDUhudg_OYEjxuUEpV-SmJ3NlzMt5MnwGYd1K5ererHDOykl5Sh48i2k-QHSg4QvKmSKQXd8Qc72I9wv_6BET2lRC3MbabEXj7qNLRwdyz64iVuxycHiIGo5-4RzWVIY-WbDlSoLmlFPG2ZUJNVE-svGTCr5t96yKv0h6bPzfaVL0L2eH7zdzwP4E-qdLr0eLAc8ForE7-JcJ-LLt-ROeGXSE77oDIpRXszvD1SSopIp0Np8e0v-IfgD7lISQ], I was a little trepidatious. Would people think I was a sellout or that my analysis is biased? But the response has been super positive. I think it’s because I’ll only ever write about companies whose products I believe in, that have interesting stories to tell and lessons to learn, and that I’d write about whether or not I was being paid (please don’t tell Ramp). I write too much as it is to waste time writing about boring companies. Sponsored deep dives actually give me, and Not Boring readers, direct access and a behind-the-scenes peek into the people and companies building the future. 
I couldn’t be more thrilled to close out the 2020 Thursdays -- which have become the startup-focused days -- on one of the most exciting startups out there: Ramp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtuhTAMPA3ZFeULvEUW3fQaKBADKZBEidOK2zcPFpUseeTReDyeDcIa0qVjyEhKhjQ6q1nHB6Hki1gtLRvUQFwelwRwGndoTAVILNPhZoMu-FtBKVdk04vqmODAjJBCvKycOjsvVBroed9LupC3z2iKdeBn0PAD6QoeyKE3xJgb8dnwr1rJnLGdw1lhNAk9pFyhD_gxheT8SpzmlFPGWc-E6ihvWftNBV_XPapkG0nPlbe5TBnNvL83kaSr_FFXet_MCcdN1Chj7WfxDq8RvJkOsE9KfP5yH41XBO3hNx-ACOkZ1uhcdYJKqkh1s6F-yP8b_QEldnfJ].
When I started doing deep dives, I promised that I would tell you how I was being paid, right upfront. This one is a hybrid: Ramp is paying me an upfront fee, with upside if some of you sign up to make Ramp your company’s corporate card. (Which you totally should [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtuhTAMPA3ZFeULvEUW3fQaKBADKZBEidOK2zcPFpUseeTReDyeDcIa0qVjyEhKhjQ6q1nHB6Hki1gtLRvUQFwelwRwGndoTAVILNPhZoMu-FtBKVdk04vqmODAjJBCvKycOjsvVBroed9LupC3z2iKdeBn0PAD6QoeyKE3xJgb8dnwr1rJnLGdw1lhNAk9pFyhD_gxheT8SpzmlFPGWc-E6ihvWftNBV_XPapkG0nPlbe5TBnNvL83kaSr_FFXet_MCcdN1Chj7WfxDq8RvJkOsE9KfP5yH41XBO3hNx-ACOkZ1uhcdYJKqkh1s6F-yP8b_QEldnfJ], btw.)
Let’s get to it.
Ramp: The Card-Sized Finance Team
Meet Ramp
Ramp makes a corporate card that wants to help companies spend less money. It’s playing in a crowded space, facing off against multi-billion dollar competitors, and actively trying to get customers to pay it less money. And somehow, it’s working. 
This morning, Ramp is announcing [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8z7Ij4S5osWHTTa0QEnIROApFxOsrty8xUqoQEtvF79ucdwZLxskcuxM4COMZgZad63ZqBBWuC7NuexTLOCLC7uFnCE9hxTlv0jmJOrw4hVMtWa6ZJCjfM_Sy73mg99L2Bzng3GFEjxZ4-oztDhOTBwg_glROwza5ER7npz5v6qgfdfjQ-7_U5bXn5y3B0sUDhWvA9btWau8JpBT67QlCIL5gfMS3cZzwy1t24dxh4rB93wDovi1YJJaSSH1K3nVCNbL6FVstyP1oMNyP2RTXlnAo5f39OwNCmTFPGqlvL97Uqba9CRTDWez9TpGuE5KYNwpsOvXm-lqXrAJvgUTYgAnwnKzLVdloY0bLqFnIlm_6NfgF4Mouw] that it raised $30 million from D1 Capital, Coatue Management, and Founders Fund. It’s not surprising that investors are excited. Ramp is the fastest corporate card ever to $100 million in transaction volume.
Employees love Ramp, too. Like previous deep dive subjects Pipe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuhiAQhU8jOw2gWF2w6KbXMAijUhUIDG28ffk1adOECcm8mfnynlYIq4-XDD4hyQniZI1kPR9a0Y3EyM6wQQzEpmmJAKeyh8SYgYQ8H1YrtN7dG5RyQTbZwzh0YtQt4_3C2QwGBIxsHJQC0GohL86ksrHgNEj4gnh5B-SQG2JIVfte8Y_ynMfZR-vWJuU5odJ7o_1ZhPAqG6Cec7IOUqqX7EwZrBeLxEpOOWWcvbFW9JQ3rPmkLV_XPYhoqo6eK_93kUT5iyryvqkTjlsoBqfyn9lZvCZwaj7APN7xSeu2glcA6eA7HYAI8WmWQLjoW9pRQQrN-JKb-wP9AET7gR8] and MainStreet [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEluwzAMfE10s6HVcQ869NJvGFpoR40tCRLVwr-vkgAtCpAgwCE5w3EGYUvl1DlVJK1CWYLXbOKzUPKNeC09m9VMQl3WAnCYsGssDUhudg_OYEjxuUEpV-SmJ3NlzMt5MnwGYd1K5ererHDOykl5Sh48i2k-QHSg4QvKmSKQXd8Qc72I9wv_6BET2lRC3MbabEXj7qNLRwdyz64iVuxycHiIGo5-4RzWVIY-WbDlSoLmlFPG2ZUJNVE-svGTCr5t96yKv0h6bPzfaVL0L2eH7zdzwP4E-qdLr0eLAc8ForE7-JcJ-LLt-ROeGXSE77oDIpRXszvD1SSopIp0Np8e0v-IfgD7lISQ], Ramp made VC Guide’s Wishlist [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOhCAQfI0cTYPiOgcOe9lvGIRWWREMNGP8_TIzh006qaQqlapqownXmG51xkysZEyTs4oPYuxk_2BW9ZaPcmQuT0tCPLTzilJBdpbZO6PJxfB2AAjJNmV0D9D1xphRinEWAHZZKs6PhZuRW_bKmXSxDoNBhU9MdwzIvNqIztx03434qXddV_s0a3EWWxNfhMubd7WjUwIEcMG_eCcHEC1vf6ET67qfMtmmh2MVbS5zJm326j1YUiHSHJMLa5X3TR_o30LdMFU8SnB0Txj07NF-5tHnIe-2dJ-oAl7ZIxGmD1k3Czl00INkNc3G-prwH_QHlGF2Fw] of companies for which 1,000+ surveyed founders would quit their jobs. 
A survey is one thing; the proof is in the hires. One of every three people on Ramp’s 60-person (and growing [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEmOhDAMfA05oiQQlkMOc-lvoCwGMp0FJWZG_H7ScBjJki2XSrUYhbClfMkjFSRngbw4K9nAp070M7Gyt2wSE3FlWTNAUM5LzCeQ49TeGYUuxZtBKRdkl8xQ0CC4mTWj46ot2FlPdqVMr1r1I_noLOq0DqIBCT-QrxSBeLkjHqXpvhr-qpNVOFqTQj2NqsK5ECc55ZRxNrJODJS3rP2mHd-29yGybXoaNt6WUxdU5v3hkixjQp2yi1uF37sK4G-gml_qDmd0eC0QlfZgn1z4NHHbxOsAGeG3eECE_DxrWC6GjvZUkKpmU-0k_gv9Acdqc-0]) team is a former founder. Ramp is a fintech and engineering all-star team aligned towards building the financial stack of the future and saving companies money. 
Turns out, companies like saving money. Ramp’s customer roster includes some of the fastest-growing companies in the world, because fast growth works both ways: the good things grow quickly, but the bad things do too. Ramp helps its customers eliminate wasteful spend that can get out of control, so they can focus on investing in growth.
It’s how Ramp saves companies money, and its unintuitive product roadmap, that makes the company so fascinating. Ramp’s story is chock full of lessons for startups, investors, and casual business nerds alike. We’ll learn: 
The Offer. Ramp is offering Not Boring companies $500 for signing up. We’ll cover that first so we can spend the rest of the essay analyzing. 
Understanding Eric Glyman. Believing that a corporate card actually wants companies to spend less takes some mental gymnastics, unless you’ve met Ramp’s CEO. 
Ramp’s Sweet Spot. It’s more tech than the corporate card companies, and more corporate card than the tech companies. 
Corporate Card Counter-Positioning. Ramp’s early moat comes from counter-positioning against corporate cards designed to make companies spend more.
The Trojan Corporate Card. The corporate card isn’t the focus; it’s a necessary tool. 
Killing Expensify and Concur. Today, Ramp released the expense management killer I’ve wanted to exist forever. 
Ramp’s Vision. Ramp just wants to help companies build better businesses. 
The Offer
Let’s start with the offer: Ramp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtuhTAMPA3ZFeULvEUW3fQaKBADKZBEidOK2zcPFpUseeTReDyeDcIa0qVjyEhKhjQ6q1nHB6Hki1gtLRvUQFwelwRwGndoTAVILNPhZoMu-FtBKVdk04vqmODAjJBCvKycOjsvVBroed9LupC3z2iKdeBn0PAD6QoeyKE3xJgb8dnwr1rJnLGdw1lhNAk9pFyhD_gxheT8SpzmlFPGWc-E6ihvWftNBV_XPapkG0nPlbe5TBnNvL83kaSr_FFXet_MCcdN1Chj7WfxDq8RvJkOsE9KfP5yH41XBO3hNx-ACOkZ1uhcdYJKqkh1s6F-yP8b_QEldnfJ] is dead simple to set up and wants to give you money: 
Deploy. Deploying Ramp at your company takes 15 minutes, and 98% of finance teams say it’s easy to set up. I’m worried about the other 2%, frankly. 
Get Cash Back. Get 1.5% cashback on everything you buy, no complicated rewards. 
Make $500. For being Not Boring, Ramp will give you $500 when you pay off your first $1k.
If you work at a company, big or small, young or old, Ramp wants to help you save money. Ramp does all the hard stuff, so it’s really easy for you to get started. See for yourself: 
But if Ramp -- the company -- were actually dead simple, we wouldn’t be here talking about it today. C’mon. Ramp gets deep into the financial rails to build a suite of financial software around the card that saves companies time and money.  
That sounds like good marketing copy, and it is, but it’s also the truth. Because Ramp isn’t a corporate card, really. It’s an engineering-driven fintech focused on improving the operating efficiency and long-term success of growing businesses. The corporate card is just how it gets close enough to the metal to make everything else it does seamless. 
Ramp is the only spend management platform and corporate card that can automate your accounting and lower your bills. Today, that shows up in four ways: 
Control. Ramp lets you set policies, streamline approval processes, and issue cards that control spend for all of your vendors.
Visibility. Because Ramp issues corporate cards, it exposes your spend in real-time, and lets you see into the future by predicting spend on payments and subscriptions.
Automation. Ramp helps companies close their books 5x faster, and saves finance teams an average of 5.4 days per month. Check out the case studies on Red Antler [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOwyAMRL-m3BIBCWl64NDL_kbkgJuwJYDA2W7-fkl7WMmSLY9GTzMGCJeYD51iIbYXzJOzWgxy7FR_Y1b3VoxqZK5Mj4y4gfOa8o4s7bN3BsjF8HZwLhVbtZlHZQfZ9ddxQGH68WZmDvZxFSClhQc7ORPs1mEwqPEH8xEDMq9XolQu3f0iv-pk2FJr4lZPAwWbQqelnAraBgJ5zI2JgXL0pcHfhKFgaV6O1ub0Mqcll1xIcRWdGrhsRfvNO7ksz6SyvfR8W2Rb9rkQmOdJYlmHSHPMLixVfq6woX8LNepU97YHR8eEAWaP9tMCfXp7h6IjoQ74Kh6JMH-etRqpho73XLFKs7E2GP5Bfz2ahKY], WayUp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUM2OszAMfJrmBsoPofSQw16-10CGGMgWkihxvi5vv6E9rGTJHo_s0cwMhGtIp4khEysZ0-isEb0clO4ezJrOikEPzOVxSYgHuN1QKshimXY3A7ng3xecS802s4DqxH1RMCyAis9C9PfHw2IPalGaP9ilM0KxDv2MBv9jOoNHtpuNKOab-rrJf7USHLGdw1HHGTI2ma6TXOELzhKbWCg3-BPRVzJhDKni4BsoFJro9kDNy9HWXH-YM5JLLqS4C6V7LlvRfnMl1_UZdbK3jh-rbHOZMsH8vFRZMj7QFJLza6WfGxy4v4lqe6z9KN7ROaKHaUf7SYQ-Gb4N0hnReHzlHYkwfZY1Jql7xTuuWVWzoabp_4R-AYsUiPk], and Clubhouse [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuhSAQ_RrZaRDEqwsW3fQ3zAijUhEMj7b-fdG7aDLJvDJzHgoSrj5c8vQxkRwxTEbLtmcDF91ItOx0O4iBmDgtAfEAY2UKGcmZZ2sUJOPdc0EpE2STSilO9cD5siwDjONLwNgvwJUCaKE8unEmyNqgUyjxG8PlHRIrt5TOWPGPin2WCHCcjfJHKRVErGO6T-Ld2jxvvjCtlfURYz17v8da_NYLxISBGMkooy1rXy0XPWVN23xRztZ1P0XQVUePlTUxzzGB2m8MEqTzafbBuLWs9w0OtM-iiJxKPrIz6ZrQwWxRv_Wnt2OPnHSdKB3-RIvpZvAMiylM9Jx2VJCCpn3xzv0D_QFPP4J4] (the SaaS one). 
Savings. Ramp gives you 1.5% cashback on every purchase, and analyzes transactions to proactively identify ways your company can cut expenses. 
Back in 2018, when Adam Neumann was flying corporate jets stuffed with weed across the globe, profligate spending was the thing to do. In 2020, it’s all about running capital efficient businesses. That doesn’t mean it’s gotten easier to spend smarter. With the shift to remote, chances are everybody on your team asked for new must-have software, expensed more lunches, bought new home-office furniture. Now that you’re closing your books for the year, you’re probably seeing how much all of those little things add up. 
Ramp is built to help you see, manage, and lower all of that spend, in real-time. If you just want to start saving in 15 minutes, sign up for Ramp right now. 
Once you’ve signed up, keep reading, because Ramp is a case study in taking the long view, counter-positioning, and how nice people can finish first. 
To Understand Ramp, You Need to Understand Eric Glyman
If the whole “we want companies to spend less even though we make less money if they do” thing sounds too good to be true, I hear you, but you haven’t met Eric Glyman. 
When Nick Abouzeid [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUM2OhCAMfho5GkBx8MBhL_Mahp-qrAoGyk7cp1-cOWzSpGm_tN-P1QhLTJc6Y0ZSMqTJO8UGLjvRj8Sp3jEpJPF5mhPAof2uMBUgZzG7txp9DO8LSrkgq3LD7DrJZvuYqZFUCjZao91oxkFqDT25eSZdnIdgQcEPpCsGILtaEc_cdF8Nf9bCl0eE1Np41Cl4u2kTyy94R7zilFPG2YN1YqC8Ze037fiybKdIrunpsfA2F5NR2-1-QJIKEU1MPiwV3lZ9wP4Gqomp9qMEj9cEQZsd3McffhJ5y8XrBBXglXe4RX2W1TQXQ0d7Kkhlc7FmE_6J_gB30nbr] from MainStreet [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1qwzAQhJ_GOhr9Os5Bh4aSY1_ByNLaVmNLRlol-O2rOIfCwsIOsx8z1iDMMR16jxlJyZAG7zTreC-UvBKnpWO96onPw5QANuNXjakA2cu4emvQx3A6KOWKLPrqXKcmqywDyXtJGUyyH4WUF3Ydea_ImzOY4jwECxqekI4YgKx6QdxzI74afq_jTF7GaJJrKzJkrGxsS67KC1YbN2jEfU55asT3ZXFPszS8203CAKmefiI2_HaLyYeZeM0pp4yzCxOqo7xl7S8VfJ4fu0qukXSbeZvLmNHYR1t_k6RDxPF0V_mxmA3WU6ihh7q3EjweAwQzruA-feCnwTMeHjvoAK-8AiKkz7GWxFUnqKSKVJqL72D_oD_Nf4YT] introduced me to Eric [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEmOhSAQPY0sDYM4LFj0pq9hEEqlRTBQ9o-3b9RFJ5VUql5e3mA0whLTpY6YkZwZ0uisYi3vhWwGYlVjWS974vI4J4BdO68wnUCOc_LOaHQxPAxKuSSranXfidlAz-wkzNy1bOgY53M3tP3UyI7cOqM-rYNgQMEvpCsGIF6tiEeuxFfFv8vgxyFCqk3cywWLv3YdiFOccso465iQLeU1q3-o4MuyHTLZqqH7wut8Thm12W4uSSpEnGJyYSnwtuod_AMU_2PZ-xkcXiMEPXmwbzR8y3ic4nWACvDJHm4_77Pk5bIVtKGSFDUbSy3hX-gPJgJz_Q] in September, we set up what was ostensibly a 30-minute sales call. After doing some light prep, I was a little intimidated. 
Eric: 
Is the CEO and co-founder of a company that was in the middle of 15x 9-month growth. 
Raised $25 million in February from top VCs for one of the top startups in NYC. 
Sold his first startup with Ramp co-founder and CTO Karim Atiyeh, Paribus, to Capital One in 2016, months after graduating from Y Combinator.
I: 
Write a free newsletter, which had 14k subscribers at the time. 
I came prepared to talk business - in, out, let him get back to running his 50+ person company. Thirty minutes into the call, our fully allotted time, we were still talking about our personal lives. He was fully focused on me: how I got to the point of writing a newsletter full-time, what interested me, what I liked to do, and my family. I mentioned that Puja and I were about to have a son, and he beamed and asked more. He was genuinely curious and really, really nice.  
I tell you all of this not because Eric is paying me, but to illustrate that Ramp is a different kind of corporate card company, run by a different kind of CEO. 
Ramp is the fastest corporate card ever to hit $100 million in transaction volume (it launched in March 2019), but when I asked Eric about the company’s sales process, it didn’t sound at all aggressive. He told me that it was all about understanding the problems that potential customers have and figuring out whether and how Ramp could help. He described it as more product development than sales. The kinds of things that founders say, except in this case, I believed him. 
Saving people money is core to Eric and Karim’s personal missions. Their first company, Paribus, automatically saved consumers money by scanning their emails for potential savings on the things they bought. Capital One acquired the company in 2016, and by the time Eric and Karim left, they were saving consumers over $100 million per year. But the mission wasn’t complete. They wanted to see if they could help companies save money, too. 
To make the mission a reality, Eric and Karim put together an astonishingly good team and investor roster. 
Team. Ramp’s team backs up VC Guide’s survey. Members of Ramp’s Engineering team finished at the top of their classes at MIT, Harvard and Stanford, were top ranked in the world at mathematics, and previously worked at places like Jane Street, Facebook AI Research, Google Research, and more. The Design team hails from the School of Visual Arts, Facebook and Ideo. 
Eric and Karim attracted top talent like Nik Koblov (former VP of Engineering at Affirm), Srinath Srinivasan (former Head of Credit Strategy at Goldman’s Marcus and Apple Card), and Miriam Mark (former VP of Sales at WeWork). As Ramp grows at breakneck speed, it’s hiring people from leading companies like Uber, Plaid, Namely, Fundera, Square, and Not Boring favorite, Slack. 
Investors. Today, Ramp announced a $30 million investment [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8z7Ij4S5osWHTTa0QEnIROApFxOsrty8xUqoQEtvF79ucdwZLxskcuxM4COMZgZad63ZqBBWuC7NuexTLOCLC7uFnCE9hxTlv0jmJOrw4hVMtWa6ZJCjfM_Sy73mg99L2Bzng3GFEjxZ4-oztDhOTBwg_glROwza5ER7npz5v6qgfdfjQ-7_U5bXn5y3B0sUDhWvA9btWau8JpBT67QlCIL5gfMS3cZzwy1t24dxh4rB93wDovi1YJJaSSH1K3nVCNbL6FVstyP1oMNyP2RTXlnAo5f39OwNCmTFPGqlvL97Uqba9CRTDWez9TpGuE5KYNwpsOvXm-lqXrAJvgUTYgAnwnKzLVdloY0bLqFnIlm_6NfgF4Mouw] from D1 Capital, Coatue, and existing investors. D1 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOgyAQhp-m3DCAgu2Bw172NQzKqGwRCAxrfPul7WGTyUDmD_mGbzEIW8yXTrEgqQXy5KzmStx7OTyI1YPld3knrkxrBjiM8xpzBZLq7N1i0MXwfsGYkGTXbJQ9X9cR7jOzrdSolOkH1Uv1YEYJ8uJMploHYQENv5CvGIB4vSOmcuu_buK71Xme3VyLC1BaK85C7pZ4tMSaQEsNdgd30JTj6jxQy-likkPjaQCkZ8y4U5ORJshrzIdpMGpKASxUMMEoZ8Tp140LPvK2HRMd735YL7btmWS2t4Edm-hKnQua5fmCk6xDxDlmF7YWP3dzgH8HTcbUzqMGh9cEwcwe7McTfsy-v41XAh3gLB4QIX-GTZ6QqmcDk6TRbGyOwz_oD8Fkj5E] is an under-the-radar public/private market crossover fund with an impressive track record [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEFuxCAMfM1y2whISNIDh176jcgBk9AlgMDpKr8v3T1UsjTSjOzxjAHCLZVL51SJnRXL4q0Wo5x7NXwwqwcrZjUzXxdXEA_wQVM5keVzDd4A-RRfG5xLxXbNJ-Cmd24GYVGMzsEwzXwcnIFJuMGyP58FTusxGtT4g-VKEVnQO1Gut_7zJr_aPHcI-PTVpqMz6WiM8wFLQyvuBrInCPcMhSKWeg-ZeS255EKKSfRq5LIT3Tfv5bY9sir2NvBjk10910pgHn8nWdEx0ZqKj1uTHzscGF5Ci7Y0PM7o6VowwhrQvlPTu6dXCLoy6ojPGpAIy5tsVUg19nzgijW39j74-G_0C9Qpfmg], and Ramp represents the earliest stage investment they’ve ever made. Miami-bound Keith Rabois, a fintech wizard with a phenomenal track record at PayPal, Square, and Opendoor, led the initial $25 million round in 2019 at Founders Fund, and sits on the company’s board. Prior Ramp investors include the founders and CEOs at companies like Warby Parker, Twitch, Away, Opendoor, Plaid and Rent the Runway.
With all due respect to corporate cards, Ramp wasn’t able to attract all of these people to spend their time and money building another piece of plastic. 
Ramp’s Sweet Spot
When I talked to people about Ramp, one of the main questions I got was: “Isn’t this just like Brex?” Oh oh oh, very glad you asked. 
Competitor corporate card companies are mainly sales and marketing-led. As I write this (literally, at 6:31pm est Wednesday night), Brex is sending out emails to potential customers offering them free iPads to sign up for an account and complete their first transaction (2020 quotas!). On the other hand, pure-play software products don’t own the transaction, so they physically can’t be as smooth, accurate, or instant as Ramp.
Ramp exists in a sweet spot: it’s an engineering and product-driven company slash corporate card (and not the other way around [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtqwzAQ_BrraPROfNChUPIHvfRiZGlrq7ElI61i_PdVkkNhYWGG2dkZZxHmlE-zp4KkFshj8IZpfhVKDsQb6dlVXUko408G2GxYDeYKZK_TGpzFkOJLQSlXZDF0YINzmktQknqrHdXe-4v2w-B-6KXpms9oqw8QHRh4QD5TBLKaBXEvnfjo-K3NcRz9mSrWCXqXtidi0S2duD068cmlHfBkm_j-IsFwyinj7MKE0pT3rP-lgs_zfVfZd5JuM-9LnQpad3_eItnEhFPKIc6Nvi92g_VFtExj21uNAc8Rop1W8O-4-C7o9T2eO5gIR1kBEfIbbB1wpQWVVJHm5lOrKv4b_QEomHpR]). 
It’s so much more deeply integrated throughout the financial rails that it can do things that competitors like Amex and Brex just can’t (or don’t), like: 
Text a cardholder the second a transaction occurs to enter a receipt, up limit via text, or anything else that a company might want to trigger 😯
Automatically match receipts in the moment or months later 😮
Categorize transactions based on data from the actual merchant, including wild things like matching transactions to contractors based on their LinkedIn page  😲
Approve or deny a transaction based on the company’s expense policy at the point-of-sale, before it ever goes through 🤯
They’re all seemingly little things that add up to a magical experience that you just need to try [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtuhTAMPA3ZFeULvEUW3fQaKBADKZBEidOK2zcPFpUseeTReDyeDcIa0qVjyEhKhjQ6q1nHB6Hki1gtLRvUQFwelwRwGndoTAVILNPhZoMu-FtBKVdk04vqmODAjJBCvKycOjsvVBroed9LupC3z2iKdeBn0PAD6QoeyKE3xJgb8dnwr1rJnLGdw1lhNAk9pFyhD_gxheT8SpzmlFPGWc-E6ihvWftNBV_XPapkG0nPlbe5TBnNvL83kaSr_FFXet_MCcdN1Chj7WfxDq8RvJkOsE9KfP5yH41XBO3hNx-ACOkZ1uhcdYJKqkh1s6F-yP8b_QEldnfJ] to understand. For now, though, you can take it from the customers: here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMmOwyAM_ZpyjFhCmh44zGV-IyLgpEwIRGCmyt-Pmx5GsuRN9lucRVhzOc2RK7JWoUzBGzHIUen-wbzpvRj1yEKdlgKw2xANlgbsaHMMzmLI6brgXGr2NF6PbtFSDfeRi9EBKLso58XAF-mtW9gbZ7LNB0gODPxCOXMCFs0T8ag39XWT3xT4CohQOpd36ma0EUJNYaOmosVWqRBK3DWxfGjOdS-EksTTSC65kOIulB647ET3w5Vc1-3Qxd96vq-yq22mJ257f2fFpIxzLiGttN6edod4LUjhRHlvKeA5QbJzBP8Rjx-7Li14HmASvGqEN-PPkByRelC855oRms9kXPoH-gMuQn3C], here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFULtuxCAQ_JqjtHifXVCkSZ0qrYVh7SNngwVLTv77YF8RaaV9aWd2xlmEJeXD7KkgqQXyGLxhmvdCyYF4Iz3rVU9CGecMsNmwGswVyF6nNTiLIcXrglKuyMOwQerZ3Z3UYprAglBO61kMoHivBjmTk2e01QeIDgz8Qj5SBLKaB-JebuLjxj9b4CsgQu5c2lr3HRym_JUihtLaghbrWTDBJZNUa60GJgW_U0WC4ZRTxtmdCaUp71j3QwVflueusr9Jui28K3VqIO554pNsYsIp5RCXtn4-7AbrtWgax5a3GgMeI0Q7reDf8vFt2KUGjx1MhFdZ4fz5PWyecKUFle2lxuZTsy7-E_0ByAB-FA], here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMFuwyAM_ZpyrIyBkBw47LLfiEjwUtYEInBWZV8_2h4mWbKfLfv5vdkzLbmcbs-VxVGpjDE42WGvjB5EcDrI3vQi1vGrEG0-ro7LQWI_pjXOnmNOrw0ANOLmLFogrYZeW4MWpQ9gJzJfCoIKw2DFk2f0R4iUZnL0Q-XMicTqbsx7vaiPC3624EdkpnKd89ZQ8NsWec7Ev0QNV_Z81FZIBZ3tVK8QBm1Rw9CJ6BAQJEorlekAr_L6DQqX5b6bEi4atgWv9Zjakfn-JBDFpcxTLjEtbXy_-Y3W16CJHFvejhT5HCn5aaXw1s9vx15y-NzJJXrUlZ5Pv5vNFDSdAg1GNLaQm3fpn-gPgy99zA], here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAQRE8TdrH421mwmM1cw8LQcZjYgPjE8u0H29KMhNRUl1qvu4wuMIe0qxhyQTVDGp1VRNKBCf5AVnFLBjEgl8dnAli1W1RJFVCs0-KMLi74cwJjKtBL9bIncpADNj03TPR0eky2B9w_DQchDTo4o67WgTeg4ANpDx7Qol6lxHxjXzf63d62bd1MOxPWJmIKtpqS2zfpNd6fzmtvnF7uhzy68HGw_fmXvHPGhJAEOUUxxYSSnjAhMe1I94MZned3FMneOF4bKdcpF23eBxIl5UOZQnJ-bvb7pVdYTqNdPba6Vu_KPoLX0wL2CqRcEZ73lT2C8m2jBUqBdDVbSlRIhjkWqNFsaGH6f9Av0j6F2w], or here: 
That’s a great place for Ramp to be. Starting with engineering and product, building delightful experiences, and then adding sales and marketing jet fuel is much easier to do than the opposite. As Patrick Collison, the CEO of another magical fintech startup, Stripe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkN1uwyAMhZ-m3CXiN00vuOjNXiMiwU1YCSAwnfL2Y6m0aZItSz6yP_ssBmGN-dApFiS1QJ6c1Wzgo1DyRqyWlo1qJK5MjwywG-c15gok1dm7xaCL4ZyglCuy6Zu5sisbGR-MYAIe0shxZm2fNZIyYcgPZzLVOggLaHhBPmIA4vWGmMpF3C_8o0WIOMfswtqXOhc0y7Nf4t6E1LJgdgk63KBzASEHwNLtbXFXg4X8Mr6C7WARxGlOOWW83STUQHnP-k8q-Lo-k8r2Ium-8n8EkvUvusnPzezgT6E9PLW61-DwmCCY2YN9e4Fv987X8EigA3wVD9hOezebQVwNgkqqSKPZ2HwMf6BvfNOF-g], told Tim Ferriss [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtrwzAQhH-NdavR07EPOjSE0BeU0sehFyNbG0eJLQlJbur8-irJobCwywzLMF-vEgwuLNK7mNAcIbRGS1LRmgneIC25JrWokYntLgBMyowyhRmQn7vR9CoZZ68fGFOB9rJpgPWqq0kldF1XXcMrTijnK0ZUDVigS06rZm3A9iDhB8LiLKBR7lPysWD3Bd3mcR5sGb1LZreUvZuyBN5EpyFf_Iy_f8dKBEz5YB_Xx7eH55d1wbbRFGxzfjWfk1p_fXzdNYcNts3700BOyEiKKSaUrAgTFaYlKQ-Y0WE4ehF0wfE00DLOXUyqP14iUZDWpc4FY4dsH_dqgvFq5O5t3tNsTVpasKobQd-wpBvIa8u0eJAWTnGElCDcxMyKiophnlnkNO0yUvsf9AdxJIYW]:
If they [startups] can create a product that is so much better than the status quo that they start to get organic traction, once you attach a real sales and marketing engine to that, it’s going to be really frickin hard for a big company to effectively compete because this organizational transformation to being good at software is just profoundly hard.
Here’s the jiu jitsu though. Even if Brex or Amex were somehow able to build a world-class engineering team and re-build the product to match Ramp’s from a technical perspective, their hands are tied. Ramp’s executed the strategy version of the Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFULuKwzAQ_BqrNLJkxU6h4uBIFa5JcaXRY2MrtiUjrWL896ckxcHCwgw7szNGIYwhHnILCUlOEAdnZXNiPRftmVjZ2qYXPXFpuEeAVblFYsxAtqwXZxS64N8XlDJBJsk5072Alt-LBKOq77RqmT4z2917axR5-QwqWwfegIQnxCN4IIucELdU8a-KXcrs-14fIWPWUJuwvhCFZqr45Vnx759r56-32-33sRMnGWW0YU3XcHGirG7qB-VsHOdNRFu1dB1ZnbJOqMz80iJR-oA6ROfHQs-TWmF5EyXTUPaavcNjAK_0AvYTFz8Fvb_HYwPpYU8LIEL8gKUDJk6ctlSQ4mZDqcr_G_0BH3V6Zw].  
To understand how Ramp’s strategy is like the Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique, why the corporate card is a Trojan Horse, and Ramp’s Vision… 
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOhCAQfM1wGwMoOh447GW_YZBuHVZoDOAaf7_MzGGTTndSlepKlTUF15guvcdc2JExTQ606OWjVd3IQHcgHurBXJ6WhBiM87qkA9l-zN5ZU1ykt4JzqdhTq06gharuQQ4GYGkXyYWAfgQBajDs5TOZAxySRY2_mK5IyLx-lrLnW_t1k991zvNsvKMNwVFjY6iQo7rA0D1YG1NwdruP_SjEILioDHNa8uolK9CqnstGND-8leu67SrBreNhlU0-5lyM3V4_WdIUyxyTo7XS29ME9G-ihpvqDQe5ck1IZvYIn9zl09Q7Rrl21IRn9lgKpg9Yy5Cqb3nHFatuEGtn9G_0B90jfHc] and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhNgZQUA8c5rK_YXj0KKOCgWaNf7_MzGGTTnVSle5KldUIc0yXOmJGUjKkyTvFJB9a0Y3Eqc6xQQzE5-mZAHbtN4WpADmK2bzV6GP4XFDKBVlUy5-jNb3tB2dBSmNpL63TQ6ehHy2z5O0z6eI8BAsKfiFdMQDZ1IJ45Fv7uPGfOud5NpsPKzgfGhv3SvlQ4SgvfTeLRryPVHKjpags8YpTThlnPWuFpLxhzYu2fJ7XQyR36-g-8yYXk1Hb9f2PJBUimph8mKu8LnqH7SPUYFPdewkerwmCNhu4b2b8tvSJgNcBKsCZN0CE9CVrEVzIlnZUkOrmYu0r_Bv9AdiefB0] for editing!, and for Eric for working with me on this! 
Don’t know what to get those business nerds or aspiring entrepreneurs on your holiday list? Why not give them the gift of Not Boring? Best part… it’s free!
Thanks for reading, and see you on Monday for the last Not Boring of 2020! 
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUV1vozAQ_DXwGBnzEXjgIRealOhIpbZJU16QsTeJE7CRbY7Ar6-TSHc6aaVdzWh3VjOUGDhJNaad1MbtNaiKs9SLcOyHQeKyNGBeHMYu19VRAbSEN6lRPbhdXzecEsOleGwghEP3nEZzzy7EJIghiFF0rI_gH2vwIUFzONpDd52K9IyDoJDCH1CjFOA26dmYTjv-wsErW0KaWiouTjPd19oQep1R2VqC0LukHRjXpG6gevzk-KtOMkq0cfzMwZGRVxB2hHHjUbwfD7i55hd5217yoJh26O1j4HSdTGyVdOUyj4rLDhfTAhXZTudtc2Z37PN7eMvyWzEVuOADJ4ftZG9w-rrnvz9fhiLLvdzi1N_zO16um-n7a6PLfdLUX6uuXm6SWRlvMzUEcqnC9SV8v6Fz9vpefmhxIPH21056CS9fVrnpg4XLU4ww8rA39_wwQnjmzS7Ix6fTtQsVcwLUnvB_drgq_euTpa9n0kLzIGw6le1tL7gZKxB3p9gzOPOM-pGDGTtIBQy6AWNAPUGbJg4jHwUodK0ak9Zg8U_oBzhGv6o