# Reliance's Next Act

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Reliance's Next Act_Mon,_19_Oct_2020_12-54-35_+0000_17540ee7fa54d6bf.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:10.151145

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuwzAM-5r61sDPJD34sMt-I1BstfHq2IGtbMvfz22BDQMkCBBBEqQDwlsuh91yJbZXLFPwVvRyVEZfmLfai9GMLNTpWhBXCNFS2ZFt-xyDAwo5PRmcS8MWq_QAaAxeexBCSTdcONccQAzYlGbNHj4T7D5gcmjxE8uRE7JoF6KtntTbSb63SZnmXEK6dXWfK4G7dy6vDdjaFowBGr2eE37TGRydveIsWMklF1xchDRamU50i4_ejPOHMifN15v8p8aK_bVp8H2BFeMTaOGmdtc9BTomTDBH9K_c9GrqGYOODW3CrxqRCMvr-ShD9uPA-ciam8-ts_Rn9APPVH36

Welcome to the 805 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last email! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 18,039 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧  If you’re an ears person, I got you covered. Listen here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkM1uhSAQhZ9GdtcAiuiCRTd9DcPPVOlFMDC29e1LNWnThAnJnJz5co7VCEvKp9pTQXIUyLN3ig187EQ_Ead6x0YxEl_mtwywaR8U5gPIfpjgrUaf4uWglAuyqonb3kyMdgy0ZnzQVEgjuZTgJilk9VXOrA_nIVpQ8AH5TBFIUCviXprupeGv9cWEJmUfl7YcpqC2z9amrQp7nQzB62ovjwhf-NAWiVeccsoomxgXfSda1q4uODGa9040Pd0W_u8SyeoXUeXnqjcIl1CDzfXfjujxnCFqE8DdmfFu6YqA5w4qwmcJgAj5Xv4UwYdRUjqSSnOp9hX_QN8Fynzs] or subscribe on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuwyAQRL_GHC0wxiEHDqnatFVbVUp6SS8WNuuYBoMLOI7_viQ5VFpppBmtnmZaGeHo_CJGFyKaAvhaK0GqglNWrpESpSKccaRD3XmAQWojop8AjVNjdCujdvb2gXHBUC8wk4pXtFzzVrGGdIqqjmNMG6kaILJCV04tJ6XBtiDgDH5xFpARfYxjyOgmK7bp3Ag2D6OLulvy1g3JCr2bk1Qncnh_OH_udh-LC28LvZDLq8noNuiMPtbfq0FB-_u13x_83L_AZX5-2iAtClxggsmaFKykLCd5r4xivPmhLCvxcCzyMDUhyvZ0xSEvrIuN89oeU3zq5QDmFqTeddJhsjouNVjZGFD3SeJ9xFvDuIwgLMzBQIzg7-Z1p6LiK4w5SjTl0pz2H_QHyk-HXQ]
💙 Hit the heart at the top to like today’s essay, and if you really love it, share it [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJyNUttymzAQ_Rp4i0cSF8MDD2kcJ3hqu7nYTf3iEdLaCAuJAWGDv74CJ-30rTPakebs7jnaC6MGjrruk0o3xm0bqPeCJzgkkRf4scsTn-MoiFzR7A81QEmFTEzdglu1mRSMGqHVmIEQCdw8odnBw5iy2EN-FGaYhVNkDQMKI3aYBu6gs6ctF6AYJHCGutcKXJnkxlSN4907ZG6P0ibTtVDHSdNmjaHsNGG6tI5Rt8mHl2Wy1__mWatBCmplmzsFnbmjzNxxDzne3OgTKMebQb_AjGz7DyJPaaG7VZH6y-sGrd8ugj3FVz6Pq91DGi7fU7KesctydmzSUuZ8xH5dltfHblnceysbTz9WV8sh2PNWfH9_tLEpToXl8bZixAe-B9zvfs4L_iTPmVjEk-rlhwi-LTapqtYtKebTnX_gxzd0en3ZvnYd6gpUemfzLOONQ8LWlPtGtzUD-_evej_xErhoy6GmYWafINPKgDJDdE5rsKjtgZ3gF-CKhCCCMMIxJoHvBRM8ybnkQZQVXuD4qDySfxrr1smfjlv3KaclyNFh52TlyrJVwvR7UDSTwG-rY27LNm6C6StIFFwaCcZAfQOHfSJhNEUocq0a17YE9VfoNwbc7WU]!
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! 
I suspect that most of the people reading this newsletter could recite the Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and Google (FAAMG) stories by heart. The American tech giants are widely covered, and rightfully so: they’re the biggest companies in the world, and they’re growing really fast. These companies do everything, vertically integrating and acquiring competitive threats on the path to 
But there’s a new breed of tech leader emerging in Asia, led by Tencent, Alibaba, and SoftBank, that turn their first acts as product-first companies into second acts as investors. By spreading out their bets, Tencent and Alibaba have made themselves future-proof: they have upside whether customers choose their products or new entrants’, because they own large stakes in the most promising startups. (SoftBank… we’ll see, but I’m bullish.)
Currently, Reliance is taking the western approach, but I think it would do well to follow its Asian neighbors’ lead. The opportunity is just too large for anyone, even Mukesh Ambani, to take on all by themself. 
I’ll explain. But first, a word from our sponsor:
This week's Not Boring is brought to you by… 
Every Monday after I hit send, Public [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMGOhSAM_JrH0QCK4oHDXvY3DNj6ZB-Cgbob_37xmewmTZp2Mp3OzJbwmfJp9lSIHQXz5MGIXupWdSMD04HQSjNfpiUjbtYHQ_lAth8u-NmST_HN4FwqthopBxik6wcOne2cgqXXAM4uYlTL6EZ26Uz2AI9xRoPfmM8UkQWzEu3l0X485Get-3wzp60OMZFL2ccn80ZyyQUXo5Cqa1UjmhUCKO2-WvXo-PaUTTlcITu_LjLL5o9c4ddqNwxvoApMtW9H9HROGK0LCLc1usN4f0rnjibiTwlIhPleXn5lrwfONatqkGos8V_oF7LsdJQ] is the first place I go. Public makes investing social, which means different things for different people. For me, as an eternal optimist, I value having a positive environment in which people smarter than me can challenge my thinking and point out bear cases that my mind just chooses not to see. 
After two weeks of writing about Reliance, I couldn't be more bullish on India or on Reliance itself, so it's the perfect time for some friendly pushback and thought-sharpening. 
I’ll be discussing today’s essay  - including my thoughts on Tencent and SoftBank - and asking people for the bear case on India and Reliance. Join me. 
*This is not investment advice. See https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUDmSxCAMfM0QujiMBwLSjecHLg7Zww4GF8du-feL7WAjldRSt7qtrrCmfKg9lYpagTx7p8hEBeOjRE6NjggukC_zkgE27YOquQHamwne6upTvC4wphy9-7qzdJIWJGNUPheCJaeLltgQxoQw6NSZdXMeogUFP5CPFAEF9boIB5u2B_1yvtiQSstQeoe8ophigokklI-MD2R4u-C4MN-MP0a8rXQozZSq7edkQFnFVE3KPq4d_rz1BuEC-ttzr1uLvh4zRG0CuNtRvTO4HqzHDirCbwlQK-R7eNqkk3hiLFBXc6mnEf-F_gBebHEn [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEFuxCAMfE04RkAgIQcOvew3IgLehC6BCEyr_L7s5lDJkjUeecZjaxC2lC99poKkFsiLd5qNXA1SzMRp4ZiSiviyPDPAYXzQmCuQs67BW4M-xc8GpVySXc_TxNUkxplyoaSxFoyjypiVWefEU5C3z2Kq8xAtaPiBfKUIJOgd8eyGr44_Wt3qvU1HA84XG1KpGUpDxGtOOWWUzYxLMcie9bsLTqr1e5CdoMfG-1LXgsa-3gok65hwTdnHrdGv3RwQPkRzWVo_avR4LRDNGsDd8fB-yOdavE7QEX5LAETI9_CdmY9qolSR5uZSe038N_oDCgR1ZA].
Reliance’s Next Act 
The Cricket Proxy War
Outside of Philly and Duke sports, my favorite sports team in the world is the Mumbai Indians, the Indian Premier League cricket team owned by the Ambani family. If you don’t follow cricket, I highly recommend the Netflix series, Cricket Fever: Mumbai Indians [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAQ-5rlGAGBwB449NLfiHhMNrQEIpg0zd-X3T1UGsmSLY_H4y3Co9TL7KUhORrUOQbDJq5HKe4kGBGYlprENi8VYLMxGawHkP1wKXqLseSXg1IuyWoEd6NyzN9h8ootIORolVomcEHQkXZfz5ntESJkDwZ-oF4lA0lmRdzbbfy48c8-53kOGXBJ8XfwZesMRkzQUVPOuVKURMMpp4yyO-NSjHJgwxpSkNp9jfIm6PbgQztcQ-u_nztINbmgKzXmR5e_V7tBegm9y9xxO3LEa4ZsXYLwronvx7yuxmsHk-FsCRChvslndz5pRakmPS2U_qL8H_QH_ax27g] as your gateway. 
After watching the Indian team in the Cricket World Cup every four years, last year was the first year that Puja and I watched the Indians religiously. We got a Willow subscription and woke up at odd hours to lock in for four hours of high-paced T20 cricket. Every match, in the corner of the screen, we saw this logo: 
The Indian Premier League’s logo looks a lot like the league logos westerners are used to seeing -- a silhouette of someone playing the sport with three letters -- with one difference: a title sponsor. In 2019, that title sponsor was Vivo [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOgzAM_JrmiPKkcMhhL_0NlIdbsg0JSgyIv9_QHlaybNmj0czYGYRXLqdec0WyVShT8Jr1fBBKjsRr6dmgBhLq9CwAiwlRY9mArJuNwRkMOX0YlHJFZi1Gdzf9CFTYp6CjZ95ax5ztZW-ltXdy6Uxm8wGSAw07lDMnIFHPiGu9iZ8bf7Q6jqPbw547l5e2QmqNBM0pp4yykXElhepYN_vo1WB_hbpJurx4Vzdb0bj3RSRFp4w2l5BeDX7PZoH4AZr7qc1lSwHPCZKxEfw3GH5f8fGJ5wo6wVEjIEL5Hq-0vB_ulA6kqfncnpL-hf4AW7NzJg], a Chinese smartphone company. 
This year, when the crowdless 2020 IPL season started in Dubai, we noticed a different logo. 
Vivo signed a deal to sponsor the IPL through 2022, but amidst the China-India conflicts, India’s cricket board dropped  [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhSAQhp9GdjUI4sEFi6aXpEkXfQMDMio9CAaw1rcveBZNyDDX_DPfKBPMPpxi8zGhPUIYjBZNRzhlbY-0aHXDGUcmDlMAWKWxIoUd0LYra0aZjHfXBMaEoUXwvuNKj0x2dJww9IrpfmqaqVUwkVa1qOgMctcG3AgCfiCc3gGyYklpixV9rsh7fsdx1EqN9ejXHDk4Ykn6YPWTjEY-GaezZbSjLe_7itAyeXvLNsFvqujrR2lwFWEEfwVYDYTL_wQ575DdIpTjl8U4iYwgmOAGN31DWEtZ3dSLtppx9U1Z1eJ1JnXcVUxyvJeVUBDOJ-WDcXMu3xe5gr0KGcuQ_3V3Jp0DOKks6Aex9GB8AUjnBqJcZSElCI9kwUg6fsOYo6ymfabt_oX-AA3VjW0's%20Vivo%20dropped%20as%20cricket%20tournament%20sponsor,-6%20August&text=India's%20cricket%20board%20has%20announced,League%20(IPL)%20this%20year.]it in favor of a homegrown sponsor. Dream11 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEmKwzAQfE10NFpt-aDDXPINo6Un1kSWjNQe49-PkhwGGhqqKGrxFuFR6mX20pAcDeoSg2Ej10LJmQQjA9NKk9iW7wqw2ZgM1gPIfrgUvcVY8ltBKVdkNVa50TMxSRpABi-ocGqCoOfZMzk5S14-iz1ChOzBwC_Uq2QgyayIe7uJrxu_9zvPcwgV7MbY4MvWERINp5wyymbGlRRqYMMaUlDa_Qh1k3R78KEdrqH1z5eGVJMLulJjfnT6udoN0pvo2Zf-tyNHvBbI1iUIn1r4GeKdEq8dTIazJUCE-gFfXfmoJ0o16W6h9Enyv9EfENpyAQ], the $2.5 billion Indian fantasy cricket startup, took its place. 
China was out. India was in. Atmanirbhar Bharat. 
Uncharacteristically, Reliance took a backseat on the title sponsorship, but its influence is there, just spread out. Jio is the only company that sponsors all eight IPL teams. Its patch sits prominently on six teams’ jerseys. 
It’s just cricket, but when I look at that chain of events, I see Reliance’s future. China’s disappearance from the IPL and Jio’s multiple bets point to Reliance’s opportunity and the approach it should take in the Indian startup ecosystem. 
Reliance’s Future
Reliance has a history of vertically integrating, but paradoxically, to capture the most value from the internet, it needs to loosen its grip. Instead of doing everything itself, Reliance should become India’s biggest growth stage investor. 
Last Monday, in Reliance: Gateway of India [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMGOhSAM_Bq5aQDliQcOe9nfMCBV2YdgoO6Lf788TXazSZumnbTTmUkjLDGdao8ZyZEhjc4q9uCyFd1ArOosk0ISl8c5AWzaeYXpALIfxrtJo4vh2qCUC7KqwWrW04Ex0TErwJjeCDML2fHS9bMlb55RH9ZBmEDBN6QzBiBerYh7rtqPin-WCBFNTC4sTT5MRj09myluBdhLJvBOl_V6Kd-_9FnHuXbBOk2c4pRTRtnAuOha0bBmtd4Kab5aUXV0W_i_gySpX6YCP1e9gb-Aom8sdTuCw3OEoI0He0vH26xLCZ47qACv7AER0j18-8EfsqdUksJmY7Et_BH9ACbCgA4], we covered Reliance’s history and present. Reliance is a sprawling giant that spins cash flow from its legacy businesses into a tech-forward future:
India’s Biggest Company. $202 billion market cap on revenues of $105 billion
New Focus. Reliance Retail and Jio, make up 30% of revenue ($31 billion) but took up the lion’s share of the screen time at the company’s most recent AGM (84%).
Reliance Playbook. Undertake projects with high upfront costs, building complex businesses around them, wrangling Indian supply and demand, spreading out the costs over hundreds of millions of users, leveraging its favorable position with the government, and selling stakes to foreign companies and investors. 
Gateway of India. Foreign companies and investors poured $20.4 billion into Jio for a 33% stake and are in the middle of investing in Reliance Retail, which has raised $5.1 billion for 8.5%. 
Reliance, which had raised billions of dollars in debt to fund its new projects, now has zero net debt, strong relationships with the world’s largest investors, communications and retail infrastructure that powers India, and the support of the Modi government, with whom it is working to realize PM Modi’s mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat, a Self-Reliant India that takes its place as a power on the global stage. 
In Part II of the essay, we’ll cover Reliance’s future and that of the Indian startup ecosystem, which will become increasingly intertwined: 
Made by Reliance. Reliance has always vertically integrated. Jio and Retail seem to be following the same path, with homegrown and acquired solutions. That works better for infrastructure than it does for consumer apps. 
The Indian Tech and Startup Ecosystem. The bull case for India tech is that it is China, just seven or eight years behind, with better western relations. Realizing the bull case would mean multiple hundred-billion dollar tech companies and trillions of dollars of value creation. As it stands, Chinese investors will capture more Indian upside than Reliance. 
Reliance’s Tencent and SoftBank Opportunity. Reliance is well-positioned to become the next Asian mega-conglomerate turned investor. It can follow either Tencent’s or SoftBank’s approach, with a unique Indian spin. 
To date, Reliance has only built or acquired, while a thriving startup ecosystem has grown up around, and on top of, Jio. This is Reliance’s opportunity: to become the largest investor in India’s booming tech ecosystem. Investing in Indian startups represents a massive opportunity, but Reliance will need to evolve how it operates to take advantage of it. 
Made by Reliance
Owning as much of the value chain as possible is in Reliance’s DNA, but it will need to find some corporate CRISPR to thrive in a time of Jio-powered Indian tech abundance.
As discussed in Part I [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMGOhSAM_Bq5aQDliQcOe9nfMCBV2YdgoO6Lf788TXazSZumnbTTmUkjLDGdao8ZyZEhjc4q9uCyFd1ArOosk0ISl8c5AWzaeYXpALIfxrtJo4vh2qCUC7KqwWrW04Ex0TErwJjeCDML2fHS9bMlb55RH9ZBmEDBN6QzBiBerYh7rtqPin-WCBFNTC4sTT5MRj09myluBdhLJvBOl_V6Kd-_9FnHuXbBOk2c4pRTRtnAuOha0bBmtd4Kab5aUXV0W_i_gySpX6YCP1e9gb-Aom8sdTuCw3OEoI0He0vH26xLCZ47qACv7AER0j18-8EfsqdUksJmY7Et_BH9ACbCgA4], Reliance’s history is one of vertical integration. From import licenses on yarn to textiles manufacturing to petrochemicals to petroleum refineries, Dhirubhai Ambani pushed Reliance to own an increasing amount of the value chain. 
Mukesh is no different. Instead of selling equity early or entering into JVs to finance his two biggest projects, Reliance Retail and Jio, Reliance raised debt and did the hard work itself, only selling stakes to foreign investors when his new business lines were well-established. 
Reliance built out the infrastructure and reduced its net debt to zero, and now, it’s building the devices, OS, and products and services on top of it with in-house or fully acquired technology, or via exclusive partnerships with global tech giants. 
In an excellent overview, What is Reliance Jio’s Plan? [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_JpySwQEssmBQy_7GxEPJ2FLIALTVf5-aXtYyZKtscdjj9UIW8qXOlNBUgvkxTvFRj4NUszEKeHYJCfiy7JmgEP7oDBXIGc1wVuNPsU3g1Iuya7EOHPjJg4gBs1nrYHBKIUcxtnBSlfy0ll0dR6iBQVPyFeKQILaEc9yG-43_t1iS8lZfXrUoX_aBhRsl3Zp7Xx0XscOwe6t7jjltMM9p7rtLUNn_NYVTNlDaTTi1WuCUTYzLsUge9bvLjg5mZ9B3gQ9Nt6Xatp6--htOkhWMaFp_Li19mPXB4R3o328tHzU6PFaIGoTwH3MwI9979_wOkFF-C0BECF_wJdDfJy-KJ1IU3OpGRn_hf4AxO6FiA], Arjun Malhotra [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaHg6euCwl_0Ng9IqMwgGmp24X7-oh0066XRXKvWYDMIS06H3mJGUDGlwVrOWd0LJnlgtLetUR1we5gSwGec1pgJkL6N3k0EXw8WglCuyagmi7Vswz8mYHmCW_dyKlkprgamnUOTUGUyxDsIEGn4gHTEA8XpF3PNDfD34dx38OERIzRS3eh2xhMWkF8DvQZzmlFNGWc-4kkI1rFmtt6obX0I9JN0W3uQyZjTT--STpEPEMSYXlgq_V7OBv4CaYah7K8HhMUAwowd7x8O7kMstHjvoAJ_s4fR0P8_MvO2elHakqtlYqwn_Qn_KDHZZ] of Indian VC Good Capital [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOhSAQPI0sDfJRXLCYzVzDILTKPAQD7Zt4--HpYpJOOqlKpT7WIKwpX_pIBclZIE_e6a5niksxEqeF65RUxJdpyQC78UFjPoEc5xy8NehTvBWUMkk2PXA79lKNzDAYBOfCSjsMYrByWYRaevLxmczpPEQLGt6QrxSBBL0hHqXhXw37rrem5Kw5PJrQvm0FiNeMMtrRbuyYFFy2Xbu54KSaf7hsBN1X1pZzLmjsq7VpJ1nHhHPKPq6Vfm1mh3ATNfpU_35Gj9cE0cwB3NMKnx3ukHgdoCP8lgCIkB_wU5X1aqBUkermUl0k_hv9AVzdcYg], described Reliance’s plan to move up the stack with Jio, vertically integrating from infrastructure up to products and services.
Reliance and the global tech companies that recently invested in Jio are working together to build out the full mobile stack:
Infrastructure. Through Jio, Reliance built a wireless data and broadband network across all of India over the past decade. It is now the largest telco in India. 
Device. With Google and Qualcomm, Jio is building an affordable smartphone [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuOhCAQRb-m2WkAtdUFi9nMbxgepdKN4PAY499PaS8mIVRRtyoXDlpmWEI8xR5SJiVBnKwR7MmHpmtHYkRr2NANxKZpjgCbtE7kWIDsRTmrZbbB3xOU8o6sYqaqGUbZzkw1Rvej6hmfZw6c607KkZPLZ5LFWPAaBPxCPIMH4sSa854ezdeDf-M6jqNWJVkPCbdkDcTaehQy6BXDFpR1gImHI2F42VAtISwOqp8inQ7bVhmQrppDrLCnapcqbTLmfUW7CtvvBCexZrWDtIYDT_1zHPnYslpviVjBKaeMspHxrm26mtWrcaYb1KvpHi3dFl6nolKW-l2jJYnCh6xCtH5B-b3KDdwtIK3pulPxNp8TeKkcmA_I_EF_c8nnDuJ6kYOcIX6KF13-HHpKB4JuJuAn-H-jP6F9m0s] for the Indian market.
OS. Old Jio Phones ran on Linux-based KaiOS, but the new JioPhone will run on Android.
Product/Service. Jio will work with Facebook and its WhatsApp subsidiary to build the Super App through which Indian consumers do everything they need to do online. 
When Jio launched its wireless data service in 2016, it launched Jio Chat as its answer to Facebook’s WhatsApp and Tencent’s WeChat. The product looks like a WhatsApp clone. Since then, Reliance has all but abandoned JioChat as its entrant to the Super App battle royale. Its website hilariously features testimonials from 2016 befitting a pre-seed, pre-customer startup and a slapped on integration with its music service, JioSaavn. It reminds me of the Spotify integration I was so proud of building into the website for my party bus company in 2013, just to show that I could (note: I am not an engineer). 
Instead, through Facebook’s $5.7 billion dollar investment in Jio, the two companies are forming a partnership that could solidify WhatsApp as India’s Super App. Already, India is WhatsApp’s biggest market, with over 400 million MAUs, and is also the second largest market for Facebook’s Instagram, with 80 million users. But Facebook has faced regulatory hurdles in attempting to expand its Indian offering beyond chat. It has been unable to launch WhatsApp Pay, for example, despite years of attempts. 
Luckily for Facebook, jumping over (or through) regulatory hurdles in India is what Reliance does best. Combined, the two companies can offer users an all-in-one platform [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuwyAQ_JpwswXYOPjAoZf-hsVjHZNgQLBu6r8vTQ5VpV2tNKPZ0YzVCLdUTpVTRXJUKIt3ik1cDmKciVOjY1JI4uuyFoBd-6CwHEDyYYK3Gn2KLwWlXJBN8WkYmJyvAJabka_zZAzXQsp1Hvhqm675LPpwHqIFBV9QzhSBBLUh5noZPi78s83mo-vrYSpq--ht2huW2z43jVXn3H13d5863KCrR4bS5aBxTWUnXnHKKaNsZlyMg-hZv7nghDT3QVxGut_4v8ekqJjQpOLjrdGPTe8QXkSLuLS7H9HjuUDUJoB7p8d3X68weGZQEZ41ACKUN_hbCZ_klVJJmptLrbn4Z_QDcjSA_Q] where they can chat, shop (Facebook Marketplace, Reliance Digital, Smart, Jewels, Trends, etc…), get healthcare (Jio HealthHub, Facebook’s Preventative Health Tool), find things to do (Facebook Local, Network18), and more. 
Facebook and Reliance are starting small, in part to assuage concerns that Reliance serves as the conduit through which a foreign tech giant can steal business from local companies. The two are partnering on JioMart (which is itself a partnership between Reliance Retail and Jio), allowing users to order from local kiranas via WhatsApp. Messaging the local kirana for delivery is an existing Indian consumer behavior, accelerated by COVID, that the two companies hope to make more frictionless through their partnership. 
From there, it’s easy to imagine a world in which WhatsApp, powered by Jio, becomes the way that Indian consumers access the internet, with the Super App essentially serving as the OS, as WeChat does in China. As I wrote in Tencent: The Ultimate Outsider [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuhDAM_BpyWxQCYcMhh730N1AeXkg3JChxWvH3DazUqpItSx6NxzNGISwxHXKPGUnJkGZnZTcy0fNhIlYOthNcEJfnZwLYlPMSUwGyF-2dUehiuBiUMk5W-VQDU9RoPj25AjuOVCht2H1gvLcTpeTUmVWxDoIBCV-QjhiAeLki7rnpHw37qBUi6phcWNpcdEZlXq2JWwX22nhyA95whVvx6LZq4hYLZmchEScZZbSj3dQxPvS87drVesuF_ux5M9BtYf-OkiR_1Sr8WtUG_gKqx7nOrQSHxwxBaQ_2bR_fgV1u8NhBBvjOHhDrA9fyzISN4k6pIFXNxhpd-BP6AYlugfQ]: 
Chinese users do everything on WeChat. They communicate with friends, co-workers, and clients through WeChat. Businesses communicate with customers through Official Accounts. They can also sell things through those accounts. Thousands of businesses, including ridesharing (Didi) and food delivery (Meituan Dianping), launched on WeChat. 
Tencent’s approach should be instructive for Reliance. Even though WeChat sits in the most valuable position in China’s mobile value chain, Tencent decided to prioritize investing over building for most categories. In his piece, Tencent Has No Dreams [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrlGAGBhBw49LK_ERFwN3R5RGDa5u_Lbg6VRvJjZI_H1iA8cjn1kSuSVqGs3mk2cTVKsRCnhWNKKuLr-lkAovFBY2lAjrYFbw36nN4TlHJJdj0p2sGttIzNdrLcGb5Ncp6ooKNcFvLSWU1zHpIFDd9QzpyABL0jHvU2ftz4vSMOe_v1bbA59soU9DZAz7jgixiHHWMgXnPKKaNsYVyKUQ5s2F1wUm1fo7wJGh98qG2raOzztYgUnTJuufj06PRzNxHCm-hm1h5jSx7PFZLZArjLJ16feZ-N5wE6wU8NgAjlar7M80nNlCrS1VzuP0r_Qn9j93ZP], blogger Pan Luan criticized the company for losing its product focus, abandoning in-house projects in favor of investments.  He missed the point. By leveraging its place in the value chain, Tencent could watch battles play out in each category and back the winners instead of building its own category laggards. 
Instead of building its own social commerce app, it invested in Pinduoduo.
Instead of building its own local shopping app, it invested in Meituan-Dianping. 
Instead of building its own ecommerce store to rival Alibaba, it invested in JD.com.
Recall Ben Thompson’s Bill Gates Line [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkN1uwyAMhZ-m3CXiJyTkgovd7DUiAm7DSiACsypvP9pKmybZsuQj-9M51iDcUj71kQqSWiAv3mk2ciXkMBOnB8eUVMSX5ZoBduODxlyBHHUN3hr0Kb4uKOWSbFpMg-PMTvPKmZBOjAqu1o7SAhtnayfy5CymOg_RgoZvyGeKQILeEI9yER8X_tkqJlxT9vHWl7oWNPbe27Q34Wjtr53vcg3gOtygwwcAFuI1p5wyymbG5SBkz_rNBSfV-iXkZaD7jf97RrL-pTT5vpkdwkto3pY29xo9ngtEszbU2za-g3q5wPMAHeFRAiBCfi-fWfBRTZQq0mgutcjiH-gHxEh-Mw] definition of a platform, based on this Bill Gates quote about Facebook as a Platform:
This isn’t a platform. A platform is when the economic value of everybody that uses it, exceeds the value of the company that creates it. Then it’s a platform.
A short-term play to capture as much value as possible from the services on top of a platform has negative long-term consequences to the value of the platform overall. With the right incentives in place, the ecosystem can build better products than the platform owner. 
Reliance is right to partner with Facebook to make WhatsApp the platform on top of which the Indian mobile economy runs, but it will undershoot its potential if it continues its attempt to vertically integrate the services on top of that platform. 
Today, to name just a few examples, Reliance has built or acquired solutions for:
E-commerce: JioMart
Reliance acquired NowFloats [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUM1uhiAQfBo5GkBRPHDopa9hEFalH4KBtca3L-qhySabzGQyP0YjLDFdao8ZyZEhjc4q1nHZiHYgVrWWSSGJy-OcADbtvMJ0ANmPyTuj0cXwKCjlgqyKtkKbmc1MdkwODe_BtEbobmZW2r7T5PYZ9WEdBAMKfiFdMQDxakXcc9V8Vfy73HmedYjn7KPGXJu4FYw4xSmnjLKBcdE2omb1ar0VcvppRNXSbeF1PqaM2nxuDUkqRJxicmEp9GfVG_iHKOnH8rcjOLxGCHryYN9i-E7x5MRrBxXgzB4QIb3g3ZZ3sqdUkuJmYxkl_Bv9AVNnc00] and Fynd [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAQ-5pya8SzpQcOvexvRAQmCVsCEQy7yt8vaQ8rjWaksWzLdhZhyeUwe65IWoUyBm_YjWuh5IN4Iz3TSpNQx7kAbDZEg6UB2dsUg7MYcnozKOWKrEbymSthJ00F1VZLxh7ghbPO67uSd0lOn9E2HyA5MPAD5cgJSDQr4l4v4nnhX30Q3OpKS24dXN76g1P26Ifqc8m-CsRgu8Y1JN8qlgD1Oh_Jd4gEw2kndArjSgo1sGH10Ss9fQt1kXRb-FDbVNG616lPikkZp1xCWjr8Wu0G8Q30mGO_W0sBjxGSnSL4TwP46ewdCI8dTILfGgERyud51sJv-k6pJt3N595e-jf6A-0Jfz8] to build JioMart
Education
Reliance acquired Embibe [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEmOgzAQfE18C7INJs7Bh7nMN5CXnuDEC7KbQfx-DBxGaqmlKnXXYjXCK5ddLbkiWSuUyTvFRi57MTyJU4NjUkji6_RTAKL2QWFZgSyrCd5q9DmdF5RyQWalJQig1oqRWW3lKMAarZ3gD_qwDSKHzqRX5yFZUPALZc8JSFAz4lJv_deNf7fZtq2DaLyBzubYgLfP9wjO63uBALoC8YpTThllT8bF0IuOdbMLTkjz7sVtoPHFu7qaitp-jiekqJTR5OLTq9GfWUcIJ9GyTG3HNXncJ0jaBHBXTLyKOV3jvoBKsNUAiFAu8MjOR_mgVJKm5nKrKP0L_QG0VXkr] to serve as the foundation of its EdTech product
Video Conferencing: Jio Meet
Tencent actually built its own Zoom competitor, VooV, as well 
Payments: JioMoney
Launched in August to compete with popular existing solutions like Paytm, PhonePe, Google Pay, BHIM, and Mobikwik
Healthcare: Jio Health
Like Teladoc or Livongo for India
Entertainment: Jio Cinema and Jio TV+ 
Jio Cinema is Jio’s own OTT streaming service, while JioTV+ aggregates all of the best streaming services (Netflix, Prime, etc…) on a set top box
Music: JioSaavn
Acquired Indian-market Spotify competitor Saavn in 2018 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUcuOhCAQ_JrhhkEUdQ4c9rK_YRB6RmYRXGjH-PfbjodNSDpd_ajqwhqEZ8qHXlNBthXIo3e67uTQqPbOnG5dPaiB-TI-MsBifNCYN2DrNgVvDfoUPxNCSMVm3dyH3jmooe3dJNUdptZ20oq-cT0ImNjJM5rNeYgWNLwhHykCC3pGXMut-brJb3r7vlcPnwue_ZVNC2EIdqYQYS_cRBOO4gvlxZh35L7wmHb-8unKTeEZgjfEcoKcVqwBEGjU_m6--FM5Tw9eMINZfHxyOv7tqV11XSO7uppxCcxrKaSoRX2vpWobVRHuglPD9GrUrRXLU1Zlmwoa-3PqZFnHhFPKtJHKP7NZIHwK5NhIcdmix2OEaKYA7jITL_s_3uCxgj5vJLUI-QJPh2U39EIMjNhcoo-I_0R_cFKeWg]
Chat: JioChat
Acquired conversational AI company Haptik [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOhCAQfM1w0yCK4oHDXPYbBqXVnkEw0K7x98uMh006qXRVuitVkyFYQrz0HhKxI0Ec0OqqFaqWTc-sbmylpGKYhjkCbAadpngA24_R4WQIg_9ecC4kW3XdQd_NtpVz3-YX9TS3QijgnRAtcKvYx2cwh0XwE2j4hXgFD8zplWhPj_r5ED95zvMsV7MTvkuDeR9dWDLcVLGbSB5iKk6ktYjg0ORvxQsDQy244BWv-krIppZlVa7WWanGVy0fDd8WUaZjTGSmdzmFjUXtA40hol-y_F7NBu4r5IRDxu3wSNcA3owO7B2e7rq-WejaQXs4kwMiiDf5aUS0quNcsexmQy7O_xv9AXUsgCk] to facilitate business conversation on the app 
Despite its buying spree and massive budget, Malhotra points out that, as a result, Reliance doesn’t have the leading consumer aggregator in any category it plays in. 
Because Reliance has been insistent on building itself, it has missed out on the upside from category-leaders being created in India’s thriving ecosystem. Fortunately for Reliance, and for Indian consumers, it has been handed another gift from the government: a chance to get in the fastest-growing game in town. 
To learn why the Indian tech ecosystem could 10x in the next decade and how Reliance should play that growth:
Massive thanks to Anmol Maini [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOhSAQPM1jaQBFccFiNnMNA9Iq8_gYaOfF2w_qYpJOOt2VSn1mjbCmfKo9FSRHgTw5q1jPZSu6kVjVWSaFJK5MSwYI2nmF-QCyH8a7WaNL8WZQygXZlBAjmEH0i5lbCoOww9AKakHCAt3CKLl0Jn1YB3EGBb-QzxSBeLUh7uXVfr34dx38OETIzZxCvXQMyYeJOMUpp4yykXHRtaJhzWa9FdL8tOLV0bDyphymoJ7fF5VkFROalF1cK_zedAB_A9X-VHc4osNzgqiNB_skw6eL2yieO6gIn-LhsvM8r7i8lwOlklQ1m2or8V_oDxrZdA0], Arjun Malhotra [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaHg6euCwl_0Ng9IqMwgGmp24X7-oh0066XRXKvWYDMIS06H3mJGUDGlwVrOWd0LJnlgtLetUR1we5gSwGec1pgJkL6N3k0EXw8WglCuyagmi7Vswz8mYHmCW_dyKlkprgamnUOTUGUyxDsIEGn4gHTEA8XpF3PNDfD34dx38OERIzRS3eh2xhMWkF8DvQZzmlFNGWc-4kkI1rFmtt6obX0I9JN0W3uQyZjTT--STpEPEMSYXlgq_V7OBv4CaYah7K8HhMUAwowd7x8O7kMstHjvoAJ_s4fR0P8_MvO2elHakqtlYqwn_Qn_KDHZZ], Rohan Malhotra [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUL1uxCAMfppjjICEO25g6NKtS18gcsBJ6BGIwOkpb1-SDJUsWfYn-_uxQDilvJs1FWJbwdx7Z8Rd6lZ1T-ZM54RWmvnSjxlxAR8M5Q3Zug3BWyCf4nnBuVRsNg5x1OKB3HJQMMrOwaCfSlnHR9GCZQdPD5vzGC0a_MW8p4gsmJloLbf24yY_a9HbE2FubFrq9M1niF8Q5kQZmDeSSy64eAqpulY1opldcEoPP626dXyZZFO2oRDY1_GAZRMTDSn7OFX4NcOC4QSqib72ZYue9h4jDAHd5Y-uRE65tK9oIr5LwEPUtTxMy7t-cK5ZZXOpZhP_if4Adi92wA], Sid Jha [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuwyAQ_JpwtACDjQ8ceulvWDw2gRSDBetG_vvi5FBppdXuaDQPZxAepZ56Lw3J0aCu0Ws2cTVKsRCvhWdKKhLbeq8Am4lJYz2A7IdN0RmMJb8ZlHJJghZgnJuFtWZU5j6aaZnsTMXo2OwXRj25dFZz-AjZgYZfqGfJQJIOiHu7jV83_t0HXxER6uDK1q8WfTAVg3kGQ6LmlFNG2cK4FKMc2BB88lLZ5yhvgm4PPrTDNjTu5-KTqnNBW2rMjw7_BLNBegM9w9r3duSI5wrZ2AT-Ew8_hbzd4rmDzvBqCS5Pn-eVmU9qplSRruZLryb_C_0BtUh2LA], my father-in-law, and uncle Sudhirbhai for educating me on India’s history, economy, and startup landscape, and to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOhSAQPM1j9wwfUVywmM1cwyC0T0Y-BnCMtx_UxSSd7nRVuitVWhX4xHTKLeaC9gxptEaSjgrG2wEZ2RoiuEA2j3MC8Mo6WdIOaNsnZ7UqNob7AmPK0SLFBD1TdB5azqhiisy4JWbmjPdCdYSgS2dUu7EQNEj4hXTGAMjJpZQtv9jXi37XOo6jcTasYGxodPQVsqE2o8Lbax2Tt3p9D91ASE8wqQyykmKK6zIQylvGG9Isxhkuph_GXy32H9rkfcpF6fV6iZIMsUwx2fCp9LooD-4mqrexTr8HW84RgpocmMd2eYK6XZRzAxngyA5KgfSAVxa0Ez3GAlU1E2tk4V_oD8Nfe3k] and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAQ-5pyawQkZMmBw172NyIek4aWQATDRvn7pc1hpZFHsjVj2VYjPFI-1Z4Kklogz94pNnLZi2EiTg2OSSGJL_OSATbtg8JcgezVBG81-hQ_F5RyQVbluF7YBMNgJDdWu3GUUoBZwPXWSMHI22fW1XmIFhT8Qj5TBBLUiriXW_994z9tjuPogo8vcD52Nm2N8rHBXp_6blaNeJ_oyI0eRWOJV5xyyiibGBdDLzrWrS44Ic2zF7eBbg_elWoKavt6vyNZxYQmZR8fTX6teoPwEVquue2tRo_nDFGbAO6KjFdJnwR47qAiHCUAIuSLfPfAR_lFqSTNzaVWV_w3-gNQg3ur] for editing.
Verified Not Boring
If you’re enjoying Not Boring and want to spread the word, you should get involved with the Verified Not Boring referral program. It means the world to me. 
10 Referrals: Thank you shoutout in the next Not Boring
20 Referrals: Not Boring Stickers
30 Referrals: Limited Edition Not Boring T-Shirt
Get your referral link and track the leaderboard by clicking this button, and start sharing with your smartest, most curious friends on Twitter, LinkedIn, text, or email.
We will be back on Thursday with a new Not Boring Investment Memo 👀
Thanks for reading,
Packy