# Slack: The Bulls are typing...

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Slack The Bulls are typing..._Mon,_16_Nov_2020_13-56-33_+0000_175d1596d52cab83.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:10.732155

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuwyAQRU9jdrYMGAcvWHTTa1gYJjEKBgRDWt--JJFaVRo0gs_M0_9GI9xiPlWKBUktkFdnFZ2Z5GJaiFWTpVJI4sp6zQCHdl5hrkBS3bwzGl0Mr4lxZILsCpgBq-eZCmusNdO4XK5CiouRklLNN_LkrLpaB8GAggfkMwYgXu2IqXT8o2OfrULELWYXbkOpW0Ft7oOJRxNSO8W3e4879Fv1vvQ6Q49nar-JU2xkI6V0plzMnA904Ca5q__O-Oim8bixfxtJVr-oJt93fYB_Cc3g2vpRg8NzhaA3D_btHd9pvaw0LqgAX8UDIuT34zMQKRch6UwazcaWW_gD_QBh3YGG

Welcome to the 655 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last email! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 20,350 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧  To get Slack in your ears, check Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMFuwyAQRL_GHC0DtosPHFK1aau2qpT0kl4sDOsYBYMLOLH_viQ5VFpppBmtnmakiHB0fuWTCxHNAXyrFcc1YbQqG6R4qTCrGNKh7T3AKLTh0c-AprkzWoqonb19FAWp0MBr1vUdVHUhemiAkIYqhiWUsu8YZgqjK6cVs9JgJXA4g1-dBWT4EOMUMrrJyDadm8DmYXJR92su3ZisMLhLkvqEDx-P56_d7nN14X2lC17eTEa3QWf0qf15GBXI3-_9_uAvwyssl5fnDdKcFKTAGNeYVjWlOc6pnHRvFh_PWVmMR5KHuQtRyNMVhzy3LnbOa3tM8WkQI5hbkHq3ScfZ6ri2YEVnQN0nifcRbw3jOgG3cAkGYgR_N687MdZUDNco0ZRLc9p_0B9f_IhX] in an hour or so. 
Hi friends 👋,
Happy Monday! 
There are over 20,000 of us here now — thank you for making that happen 🙌 
If you’ve been here for a while, you know that Slack is my favorite investment. The market, thus far, has not agreed with me. 
You didn’t think I was going to go down without making my 6,900 word case, did you?
But first, a word from our sponsor.
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Barrel
Barrel is a creative and digital marketing agency run by my friend Peter Kang [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaGwRVg8c9rK_YXj0KBkEA-3M-veLetikk35UKlXVVhPOKR9qS4XYXjBP3imQ3cBFPzKnegeDGJgv0zMjrtoHRXlHtu0meKvJp3gx2rYTbKlM0cPIexzBfEkBLYxSGmEMGG2d5ezUmfTuPEaLCt-YjxSRBbUQbeXBvx_dTy36eCLMjU1r3Tas80vHmffMq67tWgCQwIXkvIGG280_w2-m96Nv17lrym4Kafs66SyrmMik7ONc4deiVwwXUCNMta979HRMGLUJ6O50dP_jMkvHhiripwQ8Ld3HM_IwjGIAyaqaS_Uz8V_oD6ABdY0]. The Barrel team has worked with clients like Barry’s, Dr.Jart+, Bare Snacks, ScottsMiracle-Gro, Rowing Blazers, Hu, and many more to build their Shopify Plus sites and marketing strategies across email, paid, and SEO.
Please don’t waste your marketing dollars on poorly done ecommerce websites and paid social campaigns. Work with Peter and the Barrel team to create experiences that deepen your relationship with your customers.
Now let’s get to it. 
Slack: The Bulls are typing…
Imagine you haven’t read the title of this post and I told you about an unnamed public SaaS company that:
Builds an essential WFH software product,
Has the second highest gross margins of any of the 54 companies tracked in the BVP Nasdaq Emerging Cloud Index, 
Is the eighth fastest-growing company in the index, which has outperformed the Nasdaq by nearly 3x YTD.
Bet you’d say, “Sounds like an awesome company. I’d love to buy it, but it must be so expensive at this point. Damn, bummed I missed it.” 
And then I’d say, “Nope! You didn’t miss it. It’s actually deeply underperforming the Nasdaq this year.” 
“Ahh,” you’d reply, “Underperforming. Now I know what company you’re talking about. Slack!”
From Day 1, I’ve known Slack was a long-term play. It acquires customers slowly, but is incredibly good at retaining and growing with them once they’re hooked. That takes time to pay off. I’ve owned shares in Slack since the day it IPO’d direct listed [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU_T7DQCSnTBYjZ9DcNPqaQRDJRte_tBe5JJCAWvinrFZxTCHNMpt5iR7BnS6KykgvW8awdiZWtp3_XE5XFKAKtyXmLagWy79s4odDHcL5qGdWSRxqjJCNsJBbo10zDwpjeCcaa5VjBYcvmMarcOggEJb0hnDEC8XBC3_OA_D_Ys6ziO2gRtahPXcmUNHUpoxH0uW_bKvCrrEhisvMvowlxljEXUMLuQK0zKXmIMVYCjOmN6_RXAxywqzFAvuHriJGtKe0oF5Z3gvKY1N5ub_Cfh-9E268zqvOuMxfCahiQZIuqYSvOSfi1qBX8nCpKxxHUPDs8RgtIe7JcWfvnen8dzA1lGyh4QIX3FC2HfD11PBSluNhbS4d_oF0lukkA] on June 20, 2019 at $38.50 based on that thesis.
As it tanked, I bought more. It kept dropping, I kept buying. Over time, Slack became my biggest position (full disclosure etc...), all based on the thesis that it would just keep compounding and compounding until one day, everyone woke up to the fact that it was a juggernaut.
When it became clear that we would all be working from home for a long time, I thought I was a genius. I was picturing early retirement and yachts and islands (or at least a trip to an island and a boat cruise). But then, as I wrote about in May, Zoom Zoomed, and Slack slacked [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtugzAQ_Jr4BsI2UHPwIZf-BvJjA1b8QPaSlH59HSK1qrQPaWdnRztGISwpH3JLBcleIM_OSjoywYd-Ilb2lopBEFfmWwYIynmJeQey7do7o9CleDK6jg1krUwh2ATio6e9ptZQobjVxg7m1vVaT-SlM6vdOogGJDwgHykC8XJF3MqFXy_ss0ZMqFN2cWnLrgsqc29NChXYaj5X56H5TimcpTTF14XGuqU0ISksxEnWsY5SOlI-jJy3tOVmczf_lfFx6buwsH-HSZa_ihW-ryqAP4H651x72KPDY4aotAf7tgDfpp0f4bGBjPAsHhAhv4cvX4SYBkFHUtVsqvbFP6Ef7WWEKg]. 
It was only a matter of time. Slack just had to pick up, right? Wrong. Other than one brief, glorious run leading up to Q1 earnings on June 3rd, it kept sinking. And I kept buying. Any time the market tanked, and I had my pick of “discounted” stocks, I chose Slack. It got so bad that my friend texted me this last week when I took advantage of the Vaccine-Induced Tech Selloff to, you guessed it, buy more Slack: 
The Not Boring Portfolio [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1rwzAMhn9NfAz-SFL34MO6srHDaBndYLuE2FZS08QOttKu_35uexhICF5JvNJjOoQhxKuaQ0KyJIits4o1XIq6WhOrKstkLYlLbR8Bps6NCuMCZF706EyHLvj7BqW8JkfFV7YXhgojrWRmxZu11LqvjK3pStvekJtP2y3WgTeg4AzxGjyQUR0R51SIp4K_5LDBpHIIYRihNGHKSpojdDYdATDdBnKyIbmvy_5weOX7zfR9MDuNP6nRZ5_826bhz7_V-_Qxx8_dluZxsA4LLgZnC7GlxClOOWWMNUzUjRAlK4WZXT_-RjwXFZ0GXqZFJ-zM6XYDicoH1CE6P-T26dhNMN4bmUWb67R4h9cWfKdHsA9M-AB7_xqvMygPlzQCIsSHeGMn5bqWrCHZzYaM2P8b_QFnjY4U] -- the fake portfolio I made to track the companies I write that I’m bullish on -- has done incredibly well, outperforming the S&P 500 by 2.6x and the NASDAQ by 1.8x, except for Slack. 
Like Carrie Mathison in Homeland, “I have never been so sure, and so. wrong. [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtqwzAQ_BrraPSwHfugQ6GEXHsp9GRkaR2LyJKRVnH995WTQ2FhYYbZ2RmtEO4hHnILCUlOEEdrJOt4L9pmIEY2hvVtT2wa5wiwKuskxgxky5OzWqEN_qWglLdkkZNR80VzY8TMBnMRVKlBiYHShms2wIWcPqPKxoLXIOEJ8QgeiJML4pYq8VHxa5l93-sjZMwT1DqsJ6JQL5W4PivxeUvDzxTi-n37IlZyyiljrGOi7YSoWS30Zmf3G_FZNXS98zrlKaHSj_MUidIHLGrr74V-LGoF9yJKpLHsNXuLxwheTQ7MOy2--3k9j8cG0sOeHCBCfINnBX0_tD3rSHEzoTTl_43-AKFUe2c]”
But I’m not quitting on Slack. Partially because it’s underperformed SaaS so badly during COVID, I think it’s one of the best opportunities in tech. Wall Street hates it because of the threat from Microsoft Teams, but that’s our opportunity. Slack is the rare chance to be contrarian and right by betting on a fast-growing public SaaS company with extremely high gross margins. 
I’m openly and unabashedly bullish on Slack. But to keep myself honest, I’m going to lay out my bull case for Slack and would love to hear your counterarguments in the comments or over on Public [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaEQegwcOe5nfMAitkkEw0M6uf7-oyW7SSae7Ul1dZQ3CnPKht1SQ7AXy4J2mslNM8J44zR1VQhFfhikDrMYHjXkHsu1j8NagT_FitG0nyKKZEJNt-ZNOrqdcQi-kFE-uJqEYULDk1BnM7jxECxo-kI8UgQS9IG7lwb4e3avWfb6xaa1DTDim7ONMvO7arqWUSsqEZKyhDbObn8JPxs-Dt-vcNWUfCxr7Pskk6z9yhd-LWSFcQBUYal_36PEYIJoxgLut4R3G9SkeG-gI3yUAIuR7efpVqheKSlLVXKqxxH-hX1NYdJc]. 
The Slack Thesis
I’ve written about Slack twice before: 
While Zoom Zoom, Slack Digs Moats [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtugzAQ_Jr4BsI2UHPwIZf-BvJjA1b8QPaSlH59HSK1qrQPaWdnRztGISwpH3JLBcleIM_OSjoywYd-Ilb2lopBEFfmWwYIynmJeQey7do7o9CleDK6jg1krUwh2ATio6e9ptZQobjVxg7m1vVaT-SlM6vdOogGJDwgHykC8XJF3MqFXy_ss0ZMqFN2cWnLrgsqc29NChXYaj5X56H5TimcpTTF14XGuqU0ISksxEnWsY5SOlI-jJy3tOVmczf_lfFx6buwsH-HSZa_ihW-ryqAP4H651x72KPDY4aotAf7tgDfpp0f4bGBjPAsHhAhv4cvX4SYBkFHUtVsqvbFP6Ef7WWEKg]
Acquisition in the Key of G Sharp [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkE1uxCAMhU8z7Ij4S4ZZsOim14gIOAkaAik4bXP7MjNSq0q2LPnJ_vSeswhLLqfZc0VyVChj8IYPQste3Yg3ynPdaxLqOBeAzYZosBxA9mOKwVkMOT0vGBM9WdsErq_86tgslLM9yEmp6TrMsvdSMU8enNEePkByYOATypkTkGhWxL1e5NtFvLdKGadcQlq6ekwVrbt3Lm9N2Ftb93GEGh5sGhLFFegdTppnutC62rJTdRMkGMEE45wPXPaDlB3vpNvDHL8Lfl4U2xbx7zkp5pfa5PtqN4hPoXkd29yOFPAcIdkpgn_FgK_gnq7w3MEk-KoREKG8lo9stL71mg-k0XxuEaY_0A_kNYQq]
Slack co-starred in both essays, but I’ve never given it the solo performance it deserves. I’ve never laid out my bull thesis in toto. So here it is: 
Slack is already a top quartile SaaS company trading like a bottom quartile SaaS company because of that age-old worry that “Microsoft will just crush it.” 
It’s one of the fastest-growing public SaaS companies in the world with eye-popping gross margins. Slack is world-class at acquiring, retaining, and growing with the fastest-growing companies in the world. As they grow, Slack grows, and revenue compounds while costs stay relatively flat. Slack Connect will turbocharge that compounding by allowing non-Slack companies to try Slack in a lightweight way, and more seamless integrations weave Slack more deeply into the fabric of work. 
The narrative about Slack doesn’t even match today’s numbers, let alone its clear compounding potential. A misplaced narrative is my favorite kind of investment. 
Slack is hated, and one paragraph plus a question isn’t going to change that. So we’ll need to lay out the case in some more detail. Luckily, writing thousands of words about tech companies is what I do best, and I’m fired up about this one. So let’s go bear hunting: 
What is Slack? Most of us probably use Slack, but we’ll try to put it into words. That’s surprisingly hard, even for Slack itself.  
Connecting Slack’s Strategy. Slack Connect is crucial to Slack’s strategy.
# by the #s. Slack’s numbers are among the most impressive of any cloud-based SaaS company, and they keep getting better.
The Bear Case: Teams, Mostly. The market thinks Team is an existential threat to Slack. That narrative is wrong, and there’s no better opportunity than an incorrect narrative.
ARK Invest and The Power of Compounding. ARK Invest is long Slack because it understands the impact of compounding over time. 
Stickiness, Net Dollar Retention, and Free Cash Flow. Slack’s customers stay Slack customers, and grow with Slack at an industry-leading rate. That’s starting to produce positive Free Cash Flow, and it’s all upside from here. 
The Real Threat. Since Slack’s upside is predicated on its ability to acquire and retain young, fast-growing companies, the real bear case is that startups skip the channel-based communication for tools that allow them to collaborate in-app. 
Picking Up the Slack. When will Slack stock stop slacking?
A bet on Slack is a bet that technology companies are going to grow, that a platform will beat the inferior monolithic solution, and that communication is at the heart of productive collaboration. Ultimately, it’s a bet that the market is telling itself the wrong story. When the narrative changes, so will Slack’s trajectory.What is Slack?
“Six and a half years and it’s still kind of hard to explain,” Slack’s CEO Stewart Butterfield [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUM2OhiAMfBo5Gn7E5Ttw2Mu-hkGoSj4EA_VzfftFPWzSpGkn05mpNQhzyqfeUkGyF8iDd5r1XAnZvYjTnWNKKuLLMGWA1figMe9Atn0M3hr0Kd4MSrkki6bS8l5YymknOyeMsyO3Br5G2k-glCOXzmB25yFa0PCBfKYIJOgFcSuN-G74Ty08PCLk1qa1TgXhMBmJ17xeZoz1TMheiJa1wm5-Cr8ZP01H15m3ZR8LGvu-qCTrmHBM2ce5wu_FrBBuoNofal_36PEcIJoxgHuS4fOL2yieG-gIRwlw2XmWV1ylXlKxnlQ1l-pX4r_QH7AFdSc] told Jim Cramer on Mad Money [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFvwyAMhX9NOEYBkpQeOEzdWm2XbZ2qbb1EBJwGJQEEpF3260fbwyRLtvxkfX5Piggn6xfubIhoDuAbrTiuCaNVuUaKlwqziiEdms4DTEKPPPoZkJvbUUsRtTW3i6IgFep50apVuVIgiSoZkbJTVbUWKylIQShIhq6cRsxKg5HA4Qx-sQbQyPsYXcjoQ0a2qawDkwdno-6WXNoprcDpYBWkqTjbYbcZDpv9ccP8l273_ve9y-g26Iw-Pi9P3_3by-vHcflc-hB2Mh7ggjRPLxQY4xrTqqY0xzmVTnfjj4_nrCymE8nD3IYo5HAlIs-Nja312pySPPRigvEmJOtN6tNsdFwaMKIdQd1Tifccbybj4oAbuIQRYgR_X16jYmxdMVyjRFM2JWr-QX9I5YnV] in early October. 
That challenge is reflected in the ever-evolving way Slack describes itself. In March, right before most US companies decided to work from home, Slack defined itself by what it replaces:
In August, Slack defined itself as “where work happens.” 
By October, Slack landed on the framing that it’s going with now: Slack is your new HQ.
Stewart explained it to Cramer on Mad Money: 
I think maybe the pandemic times make it a little bit easier because we can say Slack is your office when you don’t have a physical office anymore. It’s where work happens. But I don’t know how helpful that ultimately is. It’s always been the kind of thing that people don’t know they want, but once they have it, they can’t live without it. 
The difficulty describing itself is core to Slack’s challenges to date, and the idea that once companies start using Slack, they can’t live without it is core to its promise. 
At the most basic level, Slack offers channel-based workplace communications software. The company believes that as companies grow, most of the work they do becomes communicating with each other. Its software allows companies to set up channels for each of the teams, projects, and workflows that comprise their business, and to integrate external software to smooth those workflows. It’s maniacally focused on making communication more effective. 
It does that by working on the little things that make the overall experience of using Slack delightful. For example, it was the first workplace chat tool to sync your place in a channel across devices, meaning that the conversation on the desktop app would pick up where you left off on mobile. It puts an enormous amount of thought into something as simple as when to send which notifications, as exemplified in this now-famous notification decision tree:
I could keep going and compare Slack and Teams feature for feature, but no one disagrees that Slack is a better product (unless your company does everything in Office, in which case Teams’ tighter integration with its own products is an advantage). 
One caveat, lest I come off as too much of a fanboy: Slack can be incredibly distracting and make it seem as if “work,” or something that feels like work because it’s in Slack, follows you everywhere. If you don’t manage your notifications properly (I turn mine off except for @ mentions), you can get sucked into an endless hole of HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!s, @channels, and cat gifs. Plenty of Slack users hate Slack. 
Done right, though it can greatly enhance a company’s productivity by organizing conversations, making anyone reachable at the tap of a keyboard, enabling easy document sharing, and automating workflows via integrations. It can be a company’s OS. 
To be the OS, it needs partners. Slack realizes that it can’t build the best of everything. It doesn’t even use its own video product internally; it uses Zoom. Instead, it wants customers to choose the software that works best for them for each thing that they do, and then make that software work better by integrating it into the company’s workflows and communications. 
As Butterfield puts it: 
For whatever software our customers already use, or whichever software they use in the future, we’d like to make their experience of those tools better because they use Slack… Slack with Slack Branded Feature X is probably less valuable than Slack with Competitive Branded Feature X in the same slot, because now you’re using Slack and you have an integration set up.
And then there’s Microsoft, whose bet is that you’re willing to take a bunch of pretty good software as long as it comes with Excel and Outlook. 
Three points illustrate Slack’s commitment to the open platform approach: 
Integrations. On page 5 of its most recent earnings presentation, Slack highlighted that there are 2,300 apps in its directory, 700k custom apps and integrations used weekly, and 820k developers actively building for Slack. It’s running Microsoft’s old Office playbook. 
Partnerships. According to Crossbeam [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMGugyAQ_Bo5GnHB4oHDu_Q3DOLakiIQWOvz7x-2h5dsssnMTmZnrCF8xHzqFAuxvWCe3KL50CuQYmSLFgtXUjFXpjUjbsZ5TXlHlvbZO2vIxfBRdF0v2VODBTnesOMcFBgUqJDLmzACxLqCAXb5TGZfHAaLGt-YzxiQef0kSqWBn6a_1zmOo00mU8A8m4KtjVtFizf2xZzuu7468IGDHABa3oJNbvW_md6N6LZH35Z9LlSPLyHLOkSaY3bhUenX02zoP0QNMdW97cHROWEws8flm4--jXzepTOhDngUj0SYv-AVWqlRKj6w6rbE2k34N_oDzop2kg], Slack has 1,316 publicly announced technology and channel partnerships, almost 50% more than the 887 Microsoft has across the whole company. 
Slack Fund… 
We’re just getting started. To read about Slack’s Flywheel, what the market gets so wrong, the rest of the bull case for Slack, the real bear case, and Slack’s future join me online: 
If you’ve read this far, here’s a bonus: I teamed up with Switchboard [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMGugyAQ_JpyNCJq8cDhXfobZoVFSREIrO3z7x-1h5dsssnMTmZnNBCuMZ8qxULsKJhnZxQfOymGfmJG9YbLQTJXZpsRd3BeUT6QpWPxTgO5GC5F23YD25TVVt7NBFJY0fei1agnbcFKPg7iDsA-PjMcxmHQqPCF-YwBmVcbUSo38XPrHnUgpaa8HeltiZBNo2MF81rvAzGnurZrOecjF8MoRMMboZOz_jfT69a3-9o15VgKgX5W5c6yCpGWmF1YK_3cYEd_ETXFXPd-BEfnjAEWj-YbkL6VXP_SmVAFfBePRJi_4Ce1lNNQo7HqZmItJ_wb_QFFVHfx] to give $500 to charity:water and get you access to an incredible event.
Switchboard makes it possible to learn with the world’s leading experts while doing good.
They are hosting a closed door chat with Ryan Graves [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOgzAMfE1zRJgADYcc9tK97wdQIAashgQlpl1-vykcVrI0skf2eGY0jHOIh95CYrEnjD1ZDW2lZFN3wuragmqUoNRPEXE15DTHHcW2D45GwxT8uVGWVSMWbTsLkyzBKhjuaPOZephsBw20dwVtJz46vdktoR9R4wvjETwKpxfmLd3k16165EJfvOlJG1oyRYhzHn36DD-H8f13NC9MgnRVViUAtCCbVsoCCjluNLnfyK9bXa5zVaR9SGzGZzGGVUTtAw8hkp8z_VzMiu4ksp0-47p74qNHbwaH9nLKVzbn43xsqD2-k0NmjNfwY1-prsn-RFazIafk_4X-AFsveds] on Giving Tuesday (12/1) where attendee proceeds support Ryan’s charity of choice, charity:water [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAQhJ9mOBp-hMUDh73saxh-WiWDYLCdWd9-GT1s0kknXenUV-UtwlzqabayIzl2qGMMhimuhewHEkwfmJaaxH2cKsBqYzJYDyDb4VL0FmPJ1welXJLFhOCGSSrpHOslp2r46qfAmfNUaA9BkY_PaI8QIXsw8IJ6lgwkmQVxe4jvB_9p4xdbI57vRle7UmcSDaecMsYUE1IJ0bFO-C1O6bfi69HTdebdfrgdrX92vqykmlzQlRrz3OTnYldIl9DAx7bXIzeDEbJ1CcKdCe8WLkQ8NzAZ3nsCbBD38RNU60FqpkhzC6X1kf-N_gDx9nL9], a non-profit that directly funds water projects that impact health, education, and women empowerment outcomes. 
To celebrate Giving Tuesday, Switchboard is matching the first $5,000 in raised funding.
I’m covering the 10 tickets for Not Boring readers. Mention NotBoring in the Q&A submission form, and if you’re one of the first 10, your $50 ticket is on me. 
Social trends data was brought to you by Pulsar [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAQRE8Tlhaf4JAFi9nkGhafdoKCAUETj28_JFmM1FJL_VSqrnIG4Z7roUtuSHqDugSv2cyVkOcr8frsmZKKhLasFWAzIWqsHUjpNgZnMOT0UVDKJXloQcXFcgerMsxIbv0FGHPSSm8sldcLefsspvsAyYGGF9QjJyBRPxBLO4mfE7-N2fd9Kj02U0s0uOa6TS5vA5CgOeWUMTYzIWchJjYJV8Iafyu-Tme63fnUum1o3POtIVWnjDbXkO4DPx9mg_gBI8Iy9tZTwGOBZGwE_02H3z4-z-JRQCfYWwREqN_jO7JSV6nYTIabz6OZ9G_0B5zIdpo], the Official Audience Intelligence Sponsor of Not Boring. Big thanks to Marc [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUDmOhDAQfA0OkQ8OT-Bgk832DchHD1hjbGQ3M8vv10CwUkut7lKpDqsR5pQPtaWCZC-QJ-8UG7gUffcgTnWOyV4SX6ZnBli1DwrzDmTbTfBWo0_xYlDKe7KokY7SCGGpMSMXglPgVg7SSOM6y0CQU2fSu_MQLSh4Qz5SBBLUgriVRnw1_LsOfjwi5NamtV4_OtvJI_GKU04ZYwMT_SBEy1phN_8MvxnfTUfXmbdlNwW1fZ1UklVMaFL2ca7wa9ErhAuo9qe61z16PCaI2gRwdzK8u7iM4rGBivApAU479_OMK-Wjl2wgVc2l2kr8F_oD_0F0Uw] and the Pulsar team for helping pull signal from the noise.
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAQ-5py24hHIeTAYS_7GxGBaYvCI4JJs_n7pe1hpdGMZGts2c4i3Es9zVYakr1BnYM3THEt5HUi3lw901KT0OZbBUg2RIN1B7LtSwzOYij5_UEpl-Rh6GQnqxeg4EarbpoL5UcYvVdSesZG8vKZ7e4DZAcGnlDPkoFE80Dc2kV8X_hPn-M4hhjyCj7kwZXUoZD78jZ_JedKTcGtX5OauiajrDMkGE45ZYwpJqQSYmCDcFu4xd-Kz8uVpjsf2r40tG59SZJqcsGl1JDvnV4fNkF8Ez3b3G_ac8BzhmyXCP4TGz9FvVPguYHJcLQIiFA_4KsLrSepmSLdzZdeWf43-gPnZn0D] and Brett [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOgzAM_JrmtigPQuGQw172N1AeprUaEpSYsvz9pu1hJcuWPbJnPN4S3HI5zZYrsb1CmTEYMchR6X5iwfRBjHpkWOelAKwWo6GyA9t2F9FbwpzeG5xLze5GBef5xK-wXEOvpXJiug6Kaxt6YbVb2ItntntASB4MPKGcOQGL5k601Yv6vsifFsdxdBHTAwKmzue1jTC15AoQfTmIEUprGRrJJRdCDELpQalOdMpvuMTfQs9Lz9eb7OruKln_eN1hxaRMLhdMtwY_7naF-AbaQ3Or656QzhmSdRHC51f6uPOWTucGJsFRYxMC5TN8GTCOkx7FwBpbyM2n9E_0B02Yemo] for your feedback and input.
Thanks for reading, and see you Thursday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkUGPmzAUhH8N3BqBDSwcOGyTJiUt2cOS7CYXZOxH4mBshM0S-PV1EqlVJUt-mpHfWPNRYuCs-intlDbuoKEvOUv9CMU4DBKXpQHz4zB2uS7rHqAlXKSmH8DthkpwSgxX8vHC81DoXtIEalozBqhidVTHSRR6hOAEVYCjBNfUveeUZGAcJIUUvqCflARXpBdjOu3gVwet7ZHKVKrn8rzQQ6UNoc2CqtYahN4j7cC4JpWA8vEnB687xSjRxsErB0VGNSDtCNPWp-gwfSLRZFd1212zIJ_33tv7yOkmmdk66U7LLMqLc_BW7IO8OOqsFRf20I7jrtjPu1UT5tPIyedutjs4_Xngv4sfY77K_IzbPfjA7_ppI-bjx1afDomoPtZdtdwmi-WW881yrfN8rm_XX_lYfH95fd8NU_vV1EZzeWrC24s4k2-ey1PkIc_3_cjHYYTxwl9g2vFa3Hrz5QRee0b_teH26d-arN1cSAviYVg4pb3bQXIzlSDvRbEnN_Mk_cBgpg5SCaMWYAz0T_EOM46TMPYj16YxZfuV_4L-AGsqwmE