# The Value Chain of the Open Metaverse

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/The Value Chain of the Open Metaverse_Mon,_25_Jan_2021_13-54-16_+0000_17739d47bcd7dc32.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:04.415385

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkE1uxCAMhU8z7BJh8r9g0U2vERFwEjoEInCmyu3LJFKrShhLfrKf3qcV4RLiKfeQiL2_kc4dpcfv5JAIIzsSxtEaCa3oq6YemJG1gb7pmU3jHBE3ZZ2keCDbj8lZrcgGf21wLhq2StO23WwGzmcNUzU3XTvUSlVdXQEXCuH2VYex6DVKfGE8g0fm5Eq0p0f18RCf-flAU4jWL2U6pkRKP0sdtizsuWjF4qXcgYVelfVFmIv3KOzoiw1J5aMJmZWCC-AgGshZoC2hDJMCcJ3-gkfNt0X8O86i_HXN8nNVG7pLyFnH3LfDWzpH9GpyaG4MdNO8wIwLeoyZshkVZYYATS_6ph2gumNnThV0_SD6mmVnE_KW_zP9AXJ7jmY

Welcome to the 439 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 31,356 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧 To get this essay straight in your ears: listen on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtPwzAQhH9NfIyyzqPOwQcQFBAgpJYLXCI_to1pYgfbaZt_j9sekFa70o5Go_mUiLh3fuGTC5FcVheXCbnFUxgwRvRkDug7ozk0lJV11RLNKw2sZsSEbucRR2EGHv2MZJrlYJSIxtmroyhoTXpeaCUUa2ElZUuF1sneSlartpIN0lLecsWsDVqFHI_oF2eRDLyPcQpZeZfRdRo3oc3D5KLZLblyY3qF3p3SaQ7w9XZ__Nhs3hcXXpfyDOeXISvXwWTlQ_e9GjWq38_t9suf-mc8n54e74jhtKBQAK0h9YImh9xJATCs1A9kVTHuaR5mGaJQh0sc8dy6KJ03dp_kQy9GHK5C6t2lO87WxKVDK-SA-oYk3sheIXV7tOgTcd2JmHgC1IyyummhvCFIzEpYsZayiqRk7ZLL_of-Aej-kbw] (in about 45 minutes).
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… 
I first heard of OpenPhone [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkduOgyAQQL9GHg0XUfvAwyab_gZBmCqtgOGyxr9frE2aECaZk7lw0CrDHOIhtpAyOi-Zjw2Ehz2tkDNEVBJEaY0gPR0Z727IiM6QkY_IJvmIAE7ZVeRYAG1lWq1W2Qb_rsCYcrQI4PCYKAyY9wPrMNCeAZuYMaobGFX4mquKseA1CPiDeAQPaBVLzltq2E9D7_Xs-96GDfy2VNrqcGbZvWQnUyhRQ8N-v3s3tD-JA2OLO0nIcgrR-vlDtHKbsrOv7Kk85RRTgqw4AyaUk_pW0rekDZMiZB30kzQddjNtU5lSVvpVN3Aoitr407fDr0U5WN-gupA1uuJtPiR4Na1gLk35sv0WJ2fwEOsvGKlydUwIH-nI-xthl5bqkZFhvNGxQ3WyCbXKf4f-A-jUmPI] when I asked Twitter [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFuxCAMRU8TlhEGQmDBolI1u54hIuDJ0EkgAtIqty8zWVRCxpb1-fznbMUl5dPsqVTyKlM9dzQRf8uKtWImR8E8BW9AMsUHoYk3woMaFAllumfEzYbV1Hwg2Y95Dc7WkOJbQSkbyMM4RMfuMN69k-MoNePKzZoPDp1W0tLL1x4-YHRo8AfzmSKS1Txq3UvHPzp2a6f-htePepe2Nu3WPc-v1pRq61FaA1wIIbUYOQc9SkWl6Pit6T8ZJcEwyoACG6ClANlDn2YLsI7uGzpBt4X15ZjbY-75ciDZxFTnlENc2vr5sBuu70VLObV7O2Ko54TRziv6C0C9OL6RTAtGzI2vn2xt9AAGxdQgNfArcCPEYVSaKUGas09NFf9N_wAI-ofv] for their favorite work software. OpenPhone was in a small group that received multiple mentions. So I dug and learned that OpenPhone is the easiest way to have a business phone number. It’s a YC grad, just raised a $14 million Series A, and is used by companies from Deloitte to Not Boring Favorite, Ramp.
I decided to give it a try, and now I have my very own Not Boring number that I can use to text with all of you. Try it out. Text me at 1-917-818-0620.
OpenPhone is even better for teams, so I spoke to someone who runs one, Jonathon Barkl, the CEO at AirGarage [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEtuxSAMPM1jGWECCVmw6KbXQHzcPNoEInBa5falL4tKli1rNJpPcIRrqZc5SiP2tyxdB5qMP21DIqzsbFhtigYmoUclFxaNjKCVZqnZj4q4u7QZqiey4_RbCo5SyS8G50Kxp5kk98s8Y4SZTyGA5FMUftSL5mqRs7913RkT5oAGv7FeJSPbzJPoaI_x7SHe-7hUV1fdsGJ_WDKCC-AgFHRbMA0wFO8Atjl8wkPyfRVDO30jF76GUHZWTS7kS0157fDX0-24vYBu2_a7nznRZTE7v2G8E9FdzCujXTFj7YVF66jXAaC00GpaYLwT9MgjzHoRWrKuHEtn5X_RX94medk]. He told me that his team uses OpenPhone to replace Google Voice, give everyone a business phone number, and automate workflows. Actually, you know what, I recorded the call in one click with OpenPhone, so you can listen to Jonathon tell you in his own words:
Listen to Jonathon Barkl explain how AirGarage uses OpenPhone [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEluxCAQRU_TLC0Xgw0LFtnkGhZD2U2CwQKcyLcP3V5EYpK-iqf_nGm45XLpI9dGXsfSrgN1wt8asTUs5KxYluA1TFQywRXxmnuQQpJQl7Ug7iZE3cqJ5DhtDM60kNN7YhypIE89UTPPDFbh6eyFVU5aqybwSo3Uo1Q315w-YHKo8QfLlROSqJ-tHfXBPh70s6_acjEbDlvOW0RzhDq4vPcgH7V1qqv9LRhSCbRvrvjKuJxXUJNyqx0pXR0f9oORoOlIYQQqoFeCaYAhWwMQZ_cFDz7uGx3qafuv7vvFIEWn3GwuIW09_n6aHeM76JWXfu9nCu1aMBkb0d822i317WfZMGHpsv1iWlcJICSVYlLA7vZdF4NZKio56WSf-1T6h_4BoBONIg]
To get your team set up with a powerful and delightful business phone in an app, sign up here: 
(P.S. This is OpenPhone’s first paid marketing EVER. Show them some love!) 
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! Today is an essay that I’m both excited and nervous about. 
Excited because some of the most fascinating work in tech is being done rebuilding the underlying structure of the internet and the economy, and I’ve wanted an excuse to dive in. We’re going deep on Web3, NFTs, and the Metaverse. It’s all more mind-blowing and more legit than I expected coming into this piece.  
Nervous because, like APIs All the Way Down [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuxCAMRU8z7CbCJCRkwaKbXiMi4CZ0CETgdJTbl06kVpVss_iyP_9ZQ7ikfOo9FWI_Y6JzRx3xWQISYWZHwTx5p6EXqpXdyJzuHCipmC_TR0bcjA-a8oFsP-bgrSGf4muDcyHZqvsWrTTOKY7D2Cne9ij7AXowHK0Ffvmaw3mMFjV-YT5TRBb0SrSXW_t2E--1YqI5ZR-XphxzIWMfjU1bFfbaZvflbkK404r3pznvLj0j81pwARyEhPp36Bto0mwAwmA_4dbxbRH_jrGsf12q_FjNhuEl1GxTfbcjejonjGYO6K7YdNF7gZgWjJgrVTcZqswApBJK9iO0V8zKpYVBjUJ1rDq7VLfin-k3NXeISQ], I am airdropping into a couple of different worlds in which thousands of people smarter than me have spent years building, investing, and exploring. I’m trying to explain topics that are so much deeper than I could cover in even a year. 
In doing so, I am definitely going to get some things wrong, or explain in the most surface-y way something that hides tons of complexity, but I hope that in getting those things wrong, it will help people building and evangelizing Web3 to understand where the holes in the communication are. 
This is a risk - I’m fully ready and willing to get dunked on (read Building in DeFi Sucks [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMmOwyAQRL8m3GyxOvjAYS7zGxZL2yHBYLHMyH8_JD6MhJpDqau6ntUVtpRPdaRS0Xss9TxARfgtAWqFjFqBvHinyEQlE3xGTnFHpJDIl2XNALv2QdXcAB3NBG919Sl-NjCmAj2UYRJzLgiTgs2c024kAJgxkk1yNvjK1c15iBYU_EA-UwQU1KPWo9zY141-96ejy2Bzik8Yd3C-7aNNexdM88H5uA0-Dg5WP5RmX2UwcnWr0xjW97GKYkowof0Owck0kjEZTUi42ye5cbxvdCzNlKrt622LsoqpmpS7b5dfD71D-Ai95dL_vUVfzwWiNgHcBaBeHD9Ilg0i5M7XLbp2eoQI2YtPM2FX4U6IkbucqeSoJ7vUt-J_6B-ulIrh]). In fact, if you’re building in this space, I’d love for you to give feedback or poke holes publicly, like Lillian Li did when I wrote about Alibaba [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOwyAMRU8TlhGGQMmCxUijXiMi4KRMCURApsrthzaLkZCxZdnf_1lTcU351HsqlbzDVM8ddcRXCVgrZnIUzJN3GiRTXAwjcXpwoIQivkxLRtyMD7rmA8l-zMFbU32KnwlKmSAPTSUflGDcwCglLG4RVt7sAkxZi3Q2l645nMdoUeMv5jNFJEE_at1Lx786dm-vvvz7ot6mrVXBh-BN3IJvRammHqUlwIeRAlcwDlJIBoKKjt_bjm9GideMMqDABDQnIHvo02wAws3-QDfQbWV9Oea2zD7fKiTrmOqcso9raz8fZsPwaTSnU_u3I_p6ThjNHNBdEOrF8oNlWjFibozdZGojCCAUU0KOwC_TjRKHmxqZGkhTdqlNxX_RP-tXiSk].
Here’s the tweet about this essay, do your thing: 
I’ve been a Metaverse bull for a while, and I’m now finally understanding the huge potential of decentralization. My goal today is to translate to a broader audience, and flesh out some of the business models and value chains underlying the future. 
Let’s get to it. 
The Value Chain of the Open Metaverse
This Metaverse is going to be far more pervasive and powerful than anything else. If one central company gains control of this, they will become more powerful than any government and be a god on Earth.
Tim Sweeney, CEO, Epic Games
Beeple’s Millions
Between December 11th and December 13th, an artist named Mike Winkelmann, who goes by Beeple, sold his works directly to collectors via online auction house Nifty Gateway [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuwyAQ_JpwtACDTQ4ceulvIB5rhwaDBetG_vuS-FBptSvtaDQPbxHWUk-9l4bkvQyeO-gMr5YAESo5GlQTg2YTV6MUdxK0CExJRWIzSwXYbEwa6wFkP1yK3mIs-cOglEvy0HYW1Hq-hCUIAZIHOi_eS2_d6NQkxaVrjxAhe9DwC_UsGUjSD8S93cavG__uk-OC59odv-w5-LL1F4maU84o45J1c2wa2FCcZSzN_ofdBN1WPrTDNbT--eaQqnNBV2rMa4efD7tB-gDdvOl3O3LE00C2LkG4cuFVzyepWSFD7SaCsdhLYUwqruR0Z-OVowcf2azuXAnSlUPprPwv-ge0L33_]. 
The welcome bidders received upon entering the site was the first sign that this wasn’t going to be like something Sotheby’s or Christie’s would put on: 
hahahah, ok so we're going balls deep on this motherfucker.
Then, there was the structure: 
Three works were priced at $969 each and left open for five minutes. Anyone who wanted to purchase one or more, could. 
One work priced at $1 each, and only 100 were made available. They sold out within seconds. 
Twenty-one works were sold one at a time, normal auction rules, highest bidder wins. 
At the end, the artist auctioned off “THE COMPLETE MF COLLECTION,” including all twenty-five works sold prior. 
Finally, and most notably, there was the art itself. Beeple’s Everydays [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOwyAMPU1ZRjGBlCxYzGauEfFxUqYEInCmyu2HNouRLFu2Zb-PM4RrLqfecyX2TjOdO-qErxqRCAs7KpY5eA0jV4MUE_NaeFBSsVDnpSBuJkRN5UC2HzYGZyjk9Lnoey7ZQ6NXI1-8FWYavXBO-VFM8m7FYgcJC1645vABk0ONv1jOnJBF_SDa6234uvHvFiksdK6N8cucnctbG7kcI7o3YG2dRdwb61dmQfOeQw9cQuMMYwddtgYg3t0P3ES_rbyrh61k3PP9ihWdMtlcQlrb-vkwG8bPommaW92OFOicMRkb0V9y6XLtY8C8YsLSuPnZUPMKQCqu5DjBcMlrfgxwVxNXgjVkn9tV-gf9A0Sahu4] collection [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEuOwyAMPU1ZRjGBlCxYzGauEfFxUqYEInCmyu2HNouRLFu2Zb-PM4RrLqfecyX2TjOdO-qErxqRCAs7KpY5eA0jV4MUE_NaeFBSsVDnpSBuJkRN5UC2HzYGZyjk9Lnoey7ZQ6NXI1-8FWYavXBO-VFM8m7FYgcJC1645vABk0ONv1jOnJBF_SDa6234uvHvFiksdK6N8cucnctbG7kcI7o3YG2dRdwb61dmQfOeQw9cQuMMYwddtgYg3t0P3ES_rbyrh61k3PP9ihWdMtlcQlrb-vkwG8bPommaW92OFOicMRkb0V9y6XLtY8C8YsLSuPnZUPMKQCqu5DjBcMlrfgxwVxNXgjVkn9tV-gf9A0Sahu4] was composed of digital art backed by non-fungible tokens (NFTs) used to prove the validity, ownership, and scarcity of digital items or experiences.  
Oh, and over the course of those three days, Beeple earned $3.5 million. 
Where Web3 Meets the Metaverse
Beeple’s auction is one of many wisps that have started to come together recently that have piqued my interest in Web3, NFTs, DeFi, and whether and how they’ll interact with the Metaverse. 
I have been excited about the potential of the Metaverse for a while. I’ve written about it here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkM1uhSAQhZ_msqthULy4YNFNX8MgjF56EQyMbXz7cjVp04SfxcmZM-ezhnBJ-dBbKsRez0jHhjridwlIhJntBfPonYZeqFZ2A3O6c6CkYr6Mc0ZcjQ-a8o5s26fgrSGf4ungXEj20C1XdlZKgZzE0LseYB6muxksznwGaa9cszuP0aLGL8xHisiCfhBt5da-38RHPTHRlLKPS1P2qZCxz8amtQpbvfTyRipvLqNZC_NacAEchIS6NfQNNGkyAOFuP-HW8XUR_8awrH_nV_n5MCuGU6itxvqve_R0jBjNFNBdhenidiIYF4yYK083Gqq0AKQSSvYDtFfBSqSFuxqE6lhNdqm64l_oD2s2hrU], and here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuhSAU_JrL7hoPguKCRTf9DcLjqPQqGMA2_n2pJm2anMdiMmfOjNUF55hOucdcyM9Q5dxRBvzKK5aCiRwZk_JOQk9Fx9lInGQOBBfEZzUlxE37VZZ0INkPs3qri4_hYrQt5WSRrrWDtj0zBrqeswENs2bop1Hojltwt64-nMdgUeInpjMGJKtcStnzo3t70PdaIRYTkw9zkw-Ti7avxsatAnvti2WiO59L9ZSfk7ZoYnwRL2lLoQXKob4PfQNNNBpgHewHPFi7zfTfPZLkr1CFX4vecL2Aak_VvR3Bl1Nh0GZFdzsvd4BXFmrGgKk-4ZQuNTYALqjg_Qjd7bRG08EgRioYqcouVlb4E_0G6BSKeQ], and here [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuxCAM_JrltlFMICEHDr30NxAPb0KXQASkVf6-dCO1qmXjw2g8zFhdcUn5lHsqlfw8qp47yohfJWCtmMlRMCvvJIxUDJzNxEnmQHBBfFGPjLhpH2TNB5L9MMFbXX2KL0bfU05WSfnUanzowTKt6cSMmweGvTPwwFlMl64-nMdoUeIn5jNFJEGute7lNrzd6HvrmKpJ2celK4cpVdtnZ9PWgL1NWu8l6v1OvKQ9hR4oh_ZdGDvoktEAYbIfcGP9ttB_fJLl7-EGP1e9YXgBzY5qezuir6fCqE1AdzmtV2Av72rBiLkF6ZSuLSYALqjg4wzD5axFMcAkZioYacouNVb8E_0GMaODiQ]. I think that Web3, a decentralized evolution of the internet. might hold the key, and that NFTs are a bridge between Web3 and the virtual economy of the Metaverse. 
I know some of this sounds out there. I’m more bullish on the Metaverse and the blockchain conceptually than most non-crypto startup people. Relative to the more finance-y folks here, my views are downright techno-utopian. And yet, whenever I heard that the Metaverse would become a multi-trillion-dollar economy, or that Web3 is the new internet, Bitcoin will hit $100k, DeFi will obsolete fintech, and decentralization is our best bet in the battle against big scary corporations… I didn’t quite get it. 
The vocabulary around Web3, like that of many early movements, is very idealistic. It’s all about using technology to create trustless systems, wrest power from corporations, and give it back to the people. I think that vocabulary is why I haven’t taken it seriously as a real alternative to the status quo. 
But I have gone deep down the rabbit hole, and I think I get it now. I can see how the decentralized web might make the leap from passionate early adopters to the mainstream, that there are real economic advantages to a decentralized internet, and that Web3 architectures will play a crucial role in a robust Metaverse.
What has been missing for me is a clear use case, like NFTs, and an understanding of the business models and value chains underlying a lot of these concepts. Yes, there’s idealism, but there’s also a sense of building a new economy in which the value accrues to the people who create the value. That’s capitalism, baby. 
Today, I’m going to do my best to unpack it. Web3 and the Metaverse are two separate ideas that may or may not intersect. I think the future is much more exciting if they do. To understand why, we’ll start by understanding Web3, dive into NFTs, then move onto the Metaverse, and then look at what could happen when these ideas converge. 
What is Web3 and Why is it Important?
Non-Fungible Tokens and Digital Ownership.
NFTs in the Wild.  
The Size of the Metaverse Prize.
The Open Versus Closed Metaverse.
Crucible and The Direct-to Avatar Economy. 
The Value Chain of the Open Metaverse. 
You’re going to be hearing a lot more about Web3 (including DeFi), NFTs, and the Metaverse, and if you dismiss it, you could be left behind. So join me down the rabbit hole. 
It’s going to get weird. Ready Reader One? 
What is Web3 and Why is it Important? 
I’m going to make a gross generalization about you based only on the knowledge that you read Not Boring: you’ve heard the terms Metaverse, Web3, and NFT, but you wouldn’t bet money on your ability to define them, and you don’t know how and where they intersect. That’s what we’re here for. 
To start to unpack it, we need to define Web3. It’s the foundational concept here. 
Source: HackerNoon
Web3 is a return to the vision of the early internet, with built-in superpowers. Decrypt [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrltlEMISEHDr30NxABJ6GbQAROV_n70t1KlSw_NLLHM84SLilf-kiF2G8ydB2oIz7LhkSY2Vkwm-A19FwJ2Y3M686DkoqFYuaMuNuwaconsuOctuAshRRfG23LJVv1gHaU8ywn4QAsF2J2tpZ-6JTg3SzevPb0AaNDjd-YrxSRbXolOspNfNz4Zw2PLl8HNS7VIWNJZ3ZYav9cLd1DuT9xugsWNG85tMAl1H-hb6BJkwXYBvcFt67dF96Ucypk3aPe2lnWMdGUcohLhR-r3XF7AVWPqXU_Y6DLYLTThv4tld6OvcSbBSPm6qQ3lqpPAFJxJfsR_qRVLwQMauSqY5XZp7oV_0l_AJPmg7M], a media platform covering the decentralized web, kicks off its Web3 explainer with this description: “the next major iteration of the Internet, which promises to wrest control from the centralized corporations that today dominate the web.”
While that explanation might build fervor among early adopters and builders, it doesn’t do Web3 any favors with a wider audience. It says what Web3 is against, not what it’s for. 
The best way to describe the positive attributes of Web3 is to take a quick trip through internet history, with Tony Sheng [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUEtuxSAMPM1j1ygmH8iCRTe9BiLgJPQRiMBplduXviyqSv7IGtnjGWsI15QvdaRC7Ldoug5UEb9LQCLM7CyYtXcKRi67oZ-YU70DOUjmi14y4m58UJRPZMc5B28N-RRfG23LB7apqV26UYyz4G7hzgoB0NleyMEsrpVO3LzmdB6jRYVfmK8UkQW1ER3l0b0_-EcNSvEqG8a1KedcyNhnY9NegaNmnQmXM7wdOVGyKRTmFW85tMAHqI_D2ECTZgMQhP2ER9_uK_93iWUVE80p-7hW-LmZHcMLqMJ07fsZPV0ao5kDulsz3da9XNArRsz1D6cNVcMABsnlME7Q3RqrKR0IOXHZs8rsUt2Kf6Q_KBuH_g] and Chris Dixon [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQRk_T7NpYIIoLFrOZaxiUUpnmxwBOxz79oC4mIZBUpXj1vUllXEI85BZSJuc15GND6fGdLOaMkewJ42C0hJYKxpueaNloEFwQk4Y5IjplrMxxR7LtozWTyib4a6KuKSerpIh65DVrG2yY1j2bO4Rx5lx1ms6svrlq1wb9hBJ_MR7BI7FyzXlLD_b1oN_llNoHY6gcarO7agquFN_r8dQ4oc9RWfO54E-nztXTk2Nh9XPXMoHESFpTqIFyKDmgraAKowKw3fQDj6Z2C63SPqasptf5OYnShzyGaPxS2q9VObRXo-Qcyut2b_IxoFejRX0ryLfJS8qwoMdYDOtB5eIPgAsqeNsDuyMXRww60VPRkELWoUz5f-gfkbyNEQ] as our guides. 
The early internet in the 1980s through the early 2000s, Web 1.0, was decentralized. It was built on top of a series of open protocols that anyone could build directly on top of, like HTTP for websites, SMTP for email, SMS for messaging, IRC for chat, and FTP for file transfer. The benefit was that these protocols were generally agreed upon and not subject to change; I could build a website on HTTP and if people had my website address, they could go directly to my site, not intermediated by anyone else. 
As Dixon said, “This meant that people or organizations could grow their internet presence knowing the rules of the game wouldn’t change later on.” It was a direct relationship between creator and consumer. There were some major challenges, though: 
Stateless. Web 1.0 protocols were stateless, meaning that they didn’t capture state, or user data. “Capturing user data” has negative connotations today, but stateless protocols meant that website owners didn’t even know whether I’d visited a site before, and couldn’t tailor experiences accordingly. 
Too Technical. You needed to be technical to build a presence on Web 1.0, which meant that regular people were left out. 
Missing Protocols. Web 1.0 didn’t have standard protocols for many of the things that power the internet today: payments, search, apps, social media, commerce, credit, and more.
Protocols Didn’t Make Money! Imagine developing HTTP, seeing trillions of dollars worth of value being built on top of it, and not being able to participate in the upside aside from some speaking fees, consulting gigs, and book sales. Oof. 
Web 2.0 (mid-2000s to present) emerged as entrepreneurs recognized the holes in Web 1.0 and built products to fill them in, and capture the value in the process. These companies didn’t just capture state, they aggregated it, building up huge troves of valuable user data. They made it so that anyone could participate and build a presence -- think about how easy it is to set up a Facebook page versus coding a website. They wrapped existing protocols in frictionless user interfaces and created de facto products where no protocols existed. Sheng describes the transition:
State aggregators became the dominant players of the internet and one surprising result of Internet 2.0 is that many of the original open protocols have been replaced by state aggregators. Internet 2.0 also showed us the power of networks. In the absence of open protocols, state aggregators acted as protocols for new areas. 
Web 2.0 is fucking awesome. I’m writing this newsletter to you because of Web 2.0. The probability of me figuring out how to write to all of you directly on top of SMTP is exactly 0.00%, and many of you found Not Boring through state aggregators like Twitter. 
But there are challenges, too. Twitter, for example, could decide to shut down my account whenever it wants to, and I can’t take any of my followers with me. It did so to the President of the United States (my take: there was no good solution, they chose the best among bad options). In a less charged example, Facebook famously allowed brands and publishers to build up audiences on a seemingly free platform, and then changed the rules, forcing them to pay to reach their own audiences. 
Dixon describes the transition as an S-curve. In the beginning, centralized platforms do anything they can to attract users, developers, and businesses in order to build up multi-sided network effects. 
Once they’ve built those network effects, though, and they know that users, developers, and businesses are locked in, they switch from “attract” to “extract.” The easiest way to grow revenue is to start charging businesses and developers to reach customers, and to serve customers ads or products based on the data they’ve accumulated. 
To be clear, I don’t think there’s anything inherently evil in this. I could leave Twitter if I felt that I was getting screwed, and indeed, many people deleted Facebook after the Cambridge Analytica scandal and after many incidents since then. 
It’s a market. The way the internet is currently architected allows for companies to capture value, and they do. 
Web3, then, isn’t as much an idealistic repudiation of Web 2.0 (although that’s a good marketing tool) as much as it is a natural evolution of the market made possible by new technology. 
Web3 is the next version of the internet, built on top of crypto-economic networks, like Bitcoin and Ethereum. According to Dixon, “Cryptonetworks combine the best features of the first two internet eras: community-governed, decentralized networks with capabilities that will eventually exceed those of the most advanced centralized services.” 
At the heart of Web3 is the idea of consensus protocols and standards with money baked in. I think about it like a series of open source APIs [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuxCAMRU8z7CbCJCRkwaKbXiMi4CZ0CETgdJTbl06kVpVss_iyP_9ZQ7ikfOo9FWI_Y6JzRx3xWQISYWZHwTx5p6EXqpXdyJzuHCipmC_TR0bcjA-a8oFsP-bgrSGf4muDcyHZqvsWrTTOKY7D2Cne9ij7AXowHK0Ffvmaw3mMFjV-YT5TRBb0SrSXW_t2E--1YqI5ZR-XphxzIWMfjU1bFfbaZvflbkK404r3pznvLj0j81pwARyEhPp36Bto0mwAwmA_4dbxbRH_jrGsf12q_FjNhuEl1GxTfbcjejonjGYO6K7YdNF7gZgWjJgrVTcZqswApBJK9iO0V8zKpYVBjUJ1rDq7VLfin-k3NXeISQ] that anyone can use to build according to an agreed upon set of rules, that gain financial value over time which is shared with everyone who contributes to the API. 
Instead of building siloed products, Web3 is built for interoperability. This is a key concept, keep it in mind. Decentralized Finance (“DeFi”), which, as the name implies, is attempting to build a new financial system without central financial institutions, is one of the most promising layers being built on Web3. A common analogy for the way DeFi products are built is with “money legos.” In a 2019 post, Building with Money Legos [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOhCAQRb-m2bWxUGxcsJjN_IbhUSrTCAaL6fj3Q7eLSQgVUrncnGM14ZLyqfZ0EHtfE507qoivIyARZlYOzJN3CgYuO9GPzKnegRSS-WOaM-KmfVCUC7K9mOCtJp_iJ9G2XLBVudkZ1_YIDkY9Ax-1ta6breX9oEU7Xr26OI_RosJfzGeKyIJaifbj1n3d-Hc9GzpftsamrT4oUcA6TfHB-bjcX57W-1Zz5z1UpuOuzdBpITU-hp55xVsOLXABFQKGBppkNEB42B-49e228OYo5iBtn-8GllVMZFKuX9f1c9Ubhs-iQk51biV6OieM2gR0Fz9dGj9GpgUj5qrXTZqqPAAhuRTDCN3FWwV18JAjlz2rzS7VVPwv_QPN5ou2], DeFi company Totle wrote:
There are roughly 200 projects listed on DeFi Prime [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JrlGGHyIgcOvfQ3EAGTpSUQgdMqf192c6hk2bJGo3lYQ7jlcqkjV2Kvpek6UCX8rRGJsLCzYtHBKZiE7MdhYU4NDuQoWajaF8TdhKionMiOc43BGgo5vRmci5E91cqtN8Yu3s8TF72duEc-WwfCG8mdu3XN6QImiwp_sFw5IYvqSXTUR__xEJ9tHPpwlLBjZ_PefhaU4AI4iBGaM5g66PJqAOJsv-Ax8H0TXT3XSsZ-vzisqJRpzSWkrcHfT7NjfAPNuW53P1OgS2Mya0R3h6K7m3dMvWHC0jpz2lBrBGCUQo7TAv0doqXuYZaLkANryi43VvoX_QMaiXzD] alone, each with their own unique features and infrastructure. This means that if you picked any 3 out of the roughly 200 listed tools, you’d have 1,313,400 different combinations to choose from to build a new financial product.
That mirrors one of the benefits of APIs that I wrote about, namely:
There is also a competitive advantage to be gained from how you leverage APIs to build your company and product. 
Using a bunch of APIs that are really flexible, and figuring out good ways to connect them, leads to a combinatorial explosion of potential workflows. API-first companies turn software into like customizable building blocks.
There’s a reason for the similarity. Web3, too, uses APIs for software to talk to each other. 
Source: readthedocs.io
The main differences between Web 2.0 and Web3 are Levels 0-2, and the implications of the architecture on where the value accrues within the system. 
While some people love the privacy that Web3 offers, or the fact that “the man” will no longer own your data, that gets it backwards in my opinion. It’s not about who doesn’t own your data, but who does: you. That’s what crypto folks call “Self-Sovereign Identity.” 
Despite the large sums of money made by the people who own Bitcoin, Ethereum, and other altcoins, I’ve always viewed the Web3 movement as anti-capitalist. That couldn’t be further from the truth. The movement is really about doing one of the most capitalist things there is: cutting out the middleman. It means that instead of value accruing to the Aggregators, there can be a more direct connection between suppliers and consumers. 
It’s not about taking money out of the system, it’s about moving the money around to the people who create and the people who consume, and to the people who maintain and improve the network itself. And it’s about attaching each user’s data and money directly to them (Self-Sovereign Identity), creating a public record that they own what they own (blockchain), and letting them take it with them, and profit from it, wherever they go on the web (Interoperability). 
To learn more about Web3 and NFTs, the Direct-to-Avatar Economy, and the Value Chain of the Open Metaverse:
Thanks to Ryan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaADFwQOHvexvkAZahx0EA7jGv19GD5t0-pnu6ioLFZeUT7WlUsnH6XpuqCIeJWCtmMleMGvvFBu57MUwEacGx6SQxBc9Z8QVfFA170i23QRvofoUrw1KuSAvBYLCCJJKPsx2crOZJuhxdq00ODm4cWF3HqNFhb-YzxSRBPWqdSuP_uvBv5sdx9EFH9_ofOxsWlvLx-byCREWH0LLiVecckYZF6x9y8aOdckAY-Fpf9hjoOvCu7KbUsG-P0dIVjFVk7KPSxu_X7BiuAaNjW5x3aOvp8YIJqC7idZbr4u6XjBibjo6DbWpxJiQXIpxYv1NrCnRs6ecuBxIQ3apbcV_0D9ov4PY] for input and feedback, and to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9muI2xoCMeOOxlX8Ng6TisCAZxjW-_nfGwCSmEP-3f_0NbaEr5NGvainiXoZwrmUjHFqgUymLfKA_eGXhIrdqmF840DnSrhd-GZyZarA-m5J3Euo_Boy0-xU9HXctWvAwgICrl8NlrrKl3Uj47pVBTi65z-vK1u_MUkQz9Uj5TJBHMq5R1u6mvm_zmcxxHFXycyflYYVr4y0cuzsb7gpjy4nG-948eoIMaWBHeyFryW7bAu8OjgiqNFiB0-AO3pl4mWW37uBWL83ukyCamMqbs48Ty_LILhY_A2Qa-lz36cg4U7RjIXbHLRe8DYpgoUmaqbrCFmQG0WuqWd1JXTOaioNO91I1gZ5e4K_6b_gFnBIbP] and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9muK0BFMUDh73sa5gCHYcZBIN1jW-_zHjYpGmTNu3f_3NAOOdymjVvxN5ponNFk_DYIhJhYfuGZQreiF7qVnUj86bzQivNwjbdC-ICIRoqO7J1tzE4oJDTZ4NzqdjDuNZbhBHvA3ipe63cILgYQHHNu87dL13YfcDk0OAvljMnZNE8iNbt1n7f5E-N4ziaGNILfUiNy0tthVTTuj_hyz6A6GvkvbTQq9plwUguq5BUov4t-kY02YIQcXBPcev4Mstm2-1G4F7vc6yYlMnmEtJcx68HLBg_g-prqnXZU6BzwgQ2or8s00XuA2GaMWGpRP0EVHkJobTUqh9Fe1msTFox6FHqjlVln-tW-hf9Ax_MhWo] for editing! And thank you to Pulsar Platform [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAQRL9mOBpBUDxw2Mv-BkFoHXYQDDRr_PtlxsMmne5DpVL9yhqELeVLHakgeS-N1wEqwlkCIEImtUDW3ik6MjkIPhOnuKNSSOKLXjPAbnxQmCuQoy7BW4M-xY-j75kgTwUCGEzMDHZdegujFIO1gq98lfPEZ3vnmuo8RAsKfiFfKQIJ6ol4lMfw9WDfbc7z7I4aislHMLimvHc27U0gXrGe0Z4yQduLdOxolxZDaZjsD33wft9YV-pS0NjX20OyigmXlH3cmvx6mh3CR2gIut29Ro-XhmiWAO6mw7ukD6_eIEJu5TltsFVDqZBMinGmw03T8Ac6yZlJTlqyS80V_0P_AL7GgC0], the Official Audience Intelligence Platform of Not Boring, for the buzz data. 
I’ll be back on Thursday with some more. Enjoy the week until then! 
Thanks for reading, 
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkluP2yAQhX-N_RgZfIl58EOby9bpJrvdzWU3LxaGiUOMwTV4E-fXlyRSq0oIRmc0HHQ-GLVQ6W7IWm2sf9sKO7SQKTgbCdZC5_cGukLwDCU4DeOI-DyLOErj1BemOHQADRUys10PftuXUjBqhVb3iSDAsX_MGCGIkpgHNA5TTMZBckgCTBGwA8aEBA9f2nMBikEGX9ANWoEvs6O1rfHCbx6eu6W0LXUnVDUyfWksZfWI6cY1KLtZuoILQ0sJxf1NXjhvNWfUWC-cejixugblShgWiOHt8IFlnZ_0ZXXKo-V1E7y8nwV7Ilc-J-1-kifL6yx8mdbDy_SXyRt55Ddt_XlZrjfR8lShlTgL-rG6ujsE-7EVz-vZeTnNUe50Fm7FTd8_yevnbmH2WyLL3bwtJwsyaiazRJz635vqZ_J6Ketg8z0ZHy60O7x97WK2M_vX9q1e588y90WGA4wChGPkwkfJCI10SRGSY3ZCXhQ0Ff4vDb_L_sbk2vWRNiDvDQencGfTK2GHAtQtKP7gZh_476kVFSjo3LfgBbUOOkJxitM4ISh8cHJgQzROCU4j3zlz7abUP9M_DkPJ4w