# The Great Online Game

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/The Great Online Game_Mon,_10_May_2021_12-52-17_+0000_17956566b347206c.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:09.594254

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAMgJ9muI3hXzxw2Mu-hkGoSkbBYF3j2y8zJrsJ0JSm_dLPO4Qpl8tueUfyfnq8NrAJzn0BRCjk2KH0MVimuRFKdiRYGZhRhsS9HwvA6uJisRxAtmNYoncYc_p0UMoVmS0bjWMgedAGQjAj-JYG0JLJtqXc8JvrjhAhebDwA-XKCchiZ8Rtf4ivB_-u5zzPJmUccolpanyuX1u9OMNzKuDwmdMSU03cCiRaTjmjilHGFaddw5rKMkJ74bgTA-80V6PXTEuh2g58xx6SrhNv9mPY0flXJayk2D9iLb_mOnr5FOqufY3rkSJePSQ3LBBuDXjb_IjpJ0hQquXQO3w7pFoxJtpWiHvt6klo1grZdaSSQ65d6R_6Cwj3ivc

Welcome to the 1,265 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! Join 47,388 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… Rows [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAUhJ8m3nVRTzTJhReF0tcI_pxkpVGD0Za8fc0u7IJ40GGc4dPqgmvKp9rTUci1zeXcUUX8OzYsBTOpB-bZO8UkH0H0E3Gqd2wUI_HHvGTEoP2mSq5I9mo2b3XxKT4clHJB7ooyYQYt6NIDg0WMvAfUDqTpDZgFzTNXV-cxWlT4i_lMEcmm7qXsHXx2_LutnP6Om03hOsF3LWE-Us0WO_h61-24vJSAztfQFKNjfN1aHXbt13g5UjEp-7h-BH1yyhnx6hpUMMq44HS6sRvl4wjSguYaDJ8kF4uVTPYghgntxLqehpXfjmqOou3PVY5k9Xq6yT93HXB7CA3O3Gao0ZdzxqjNhu7JrTzxP0jOK7bC7VvcrMsFnUrBGAwDwJNTAwuSDdBPE2nJLjVXfIf-A12GnDA]
In March, I wrote that Excel Never Dies. I may have spoken too soon. Rows [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAUhJ8m3nVRTzTJhReF0tcI_pxkpVGD0Za8fc0u7IJ40GGc4dPqgmvKp9rTUci1zeXcUUX8OzYsBTOpB-bZO8UkH0H0E3Gqd2wUI_HHvGTEoP2mSq5I9mo2b3XxKT4clHJB7ooyYQYt6NIDg0WMvAfUDqTpDZgFzTNXV-cxWlT4i_lMEcmm7qXsHXx2_LutnP6Om03hOsF3LWE-Us0WO_h61-24vJSAztfQFKNjfN1aHXbt13g5UjEp-7h-BH1yyhnx6hpUMMq44HS6sRvl4wjSguYaDJ8kF4uVTPYghgntxLqehpXfjmqOou3PVY5k9Xq6yT93HXB7CA3O3Gao0ZdzxqjNhu7JrTzxP0jOK7bC7VvcrMsFnUrBGAwDwJNTAwuSDdBPE2nJLjVXfIf-A12GnDA] very much wants Excel to die. It has a shot: Rows is one of the most “Holy shit 🤯” new product experiences I’ve had in a long time.
Rows [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAUhJ8m3nVRTzTJhReF0tcI_pxkpVGD0Za8fc0u7IJ40GGc4dPqgmvKp9rTUci1zeXcUUX8OzYsBTOpB-bZO8UkH0H0E3Gqd2wUI_HHvGTEoP2mSq5I9mo2b3XxKT4clHJB7ooyYQYt6NIDg0WMvAfUDqTpDZgFzTNXV-cxWlT4i_lMEcmm7qXsHXx2_LutnP6Om03hOsF3LWE-Us0WO_h61-24vJSAztfQFKNjfN1aHXbt13g5UjEp-7h-BH1yyhnx6hpUMMq44HS6sRvl4wjSguYaDJ8kF4uVTPYghgntxLqehpXfjmqOou3PVY5k9Xq6yT93HXB7CA3O3Gao0ZdzxqjNhu7JrTzxP0jOK7bC7VvcrMsFnUrBGAwDwJNTAwuSDdBPE2nJLjVXfIf-A12GnDA] is a spreadsheet powered by APIs, with built-in integrations that let you enrich mailing  lists, learn what’s in a company’s tech stack, find company data via Crunchbase, and much more, right in the spreadsheet. They even made me a template to monitor trending tweets [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd2K9CAMhq-mnu2gsdr2wIMPPvY2itVMR7Zq0XSH3v3aGdgFMSEv-XviLOGay2n2XIld30znjibhs25IhIUdFcscvBEaRqn6iXnTezGqkYU63wtitGEzVA5k-7FswVkKOb0yOAfFHga076cJHKjBLgiIgxQg_cS1FoO_47uvPXzA5NDgN5YzJ2SbeRDttZP_Ovhsr-Rnvbkcm0sY963NXpsfcwqUywcVTD6k9YOeiHQpnfw8KM41H8VhJ___bdWBvpSIPhyxKYtN6TfqbNxtWNOVkWnJ5Soa7QkcBAvmMlwJLkABn27ixmEcpXbSgpULTBrU3Wmhe6mGCd0kup7HFW71WCpZ93WtwIr5Ld3kr4eNuL2ExnBuNh5tqXPGZJcN_Rsvva_0Aj6v2AZuBPxs6boN10oIOQxSvnE2_rLhlY08a519blnpr-kPB-iqvw] on topics I’m writing about. 
Plus, the spreadsheets are always ready to share: beyond just collaborating with others, anyone can transform their spreadsheets into interactive web apps in one-click. Anyone can build forms, models, and internal tools out of a spreadsheet without having to code.
Everything in Rows [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAUhJ8m3nVRTzTJhReF0tcI_pxkpVGD0Za8fc0u7IJ40GGc4dPqgmvKp9rTUci1zeXcUUX8OzYsBTOpB-bZO8UkH0H0E3Gqd2wUI_HHvGTEoP2mSq5I9mo2b3XxKT4clHJB7ooyYQYt6NIDg0WMvAfUDqTpDZgFzTNXV-cxWlT4i_lMEcmm7qXsHXx2_LutnP6Om03hOsF3LWE-Us0WO_h61-24vJSAztfQFKNjfN1aHXbt13g5UjEp-7h-BH1yyhnx6hpUMMq44HS6sRvl4wjSguYaDJ8kF4uVTPYghgntxLqehpXfjmqOou3PVY5k9Xq6yT93HXB7CA3O3Gao0ZdzxqjNhu7JrTzxP0jOK7bC7VvcrMsFnUrBGAwDwJNTAwuSDdBPE2nJLjVXfIf-A12GnDA] is formula-based. It’s kind of like if Excel, Airtable, and Zapier had a baby, plus access to databases that normally live behind paywalls.
It’s really incredible already, and it’s still in beta. Rows wants Not Boring readers -- people who love finance & tech -- to be among the early adopters. You should just try it for yourself, on me:
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy belated Mother’s Day to all the not boring moms! 
Most of the time at Not Boring, I write about companies, with facts and figures and histories and graphs. Occasionally, I’ll write about concepts and business models, like the Metaverse, DAOs, or APIs. Sometimes, I’ll let you into my brain to see what’s going on in there before an idea is fully baked, when its just a bunch of wisps starting to form a braid. 
Today is one of those pieces. It’s shorter. It’s meant to be interactive. Most of the fun will happen when you take the idea and try to apply it to your own work or life. 
To be clear, much of today’s essay is based on my own personal experience. I fully understand that not everyone has the luxury of having a roof over their head, food on the table, and an internet connection. Many people can’t afford the time to play the game. 
But if you take the hours it takes to read Not Boring, you’re probably already playing the Great Online Game to some degree. You read this because you want to know how the online economy works, and how you can play it better. But you can’t play to win unless you know you’re playing.
Let’s get to it. 
The Great Online Game
(Click this if you just want to jump to reading online)
This didn’t start as a piece about games. I set out to answer this question: why are tech growth stocks sagging while crypto moons and value roars back? 
But I figured out how to explain that out in way fewer words: 
Crypto is just more fun. 
But crypto itself is not the game. It’s just the in-game currency for a much bigger game, played across the internet, that involves CEOs, influencers, artists, researchers, investors, and regular people, like you and me. That’s a much more fun topic to explore than which asset class is outperforming which. This is bigger, more permanent than day-to-day market fluctuations.
We’re all playing a Great Online Game. How well we play determines the rewards we get, online and offline.
The Great Online Game is played concurrently by billions of people, online, as themselves, with real-world consequences. Your financial and psychological wellbeing is at stake, but the downside is limited. The upside, on the other hand, is infinite.
Social media is the clearest manifestation of this meta-game. Beginner-level Twitter feels weird, like a bunch of people exposing their personal thoughts to the world. Medium-level Twitter is Threads and engagement hacks. Twitter Mastery is indistinguishable from an ongoing game. This is also true for Reddit, Discord, Instagram, TikTok, Facebook, and other social networks. 
But social media is just one piece of an interconnected game that spans online and offline spaces. The way you play in one area unlocks opportunities in others. Sharing ideas on Twitter might get you invited to a Discord, your participation in that Discord might get you invited to work on a new project, and that new project might make you rich. Or it might bring you more followers on Twitter and more Discord invites and more project opportunities and new ideas that you want to explore which might kick off any number of new paths. 
We now live in a world in which, by typing things into your phone or your keyboard, or saying things into a microphone, or snapping pictures or videos, you can marshall resources, support, and opportunities. Crypto has the potential to take it up a notch by baking game mechanics -- points, rewards, skins, teams, and more -- right into the whole internet. 
The Great Online Game is free to play, and it starts simply: by realizing that you’re playing a game. Every tweet is a free lottery ticket. That’s a big unlock.
Anyone can play. You can choose how to play given your resources and skills at the current moment. You can level up fast. Financial and social capital are no longer tied so tightly to where you went, who you know, or what your boss thinks of you. This game has different physics and wormholes through which to jump. It’s exponential instead of linear.
To understand how the game works and how to play, we’ll work our way up: 
What is a Video Game? 
The Great Online Game 
Meet the Players
How Crypto Supercharges the Game
How to Play the Game
By the end of this post, I hope I’ve convinced you to throw a couple coins in and start playing, but I think I might need to show you that we’re even playing a video game first.
What is a Video Game? 
It’s Monday morning. You’re tired. You have to go to work. You have an assignment that you pushed off on Friday, because it’s practically Hot Vax Summer and you had plans, but now it’s Monday and damn. Now you need to do that thing. This does not seem fun. This does not seem like a game. 
So it might take me a minute to convince you that yes, it is, even for you. I’m going to start my argument like a shitty high school valedictorian: 
The Oxford English Dictionary defines a video game as, “A game played by electronically manipulating images produced by a computer program on a television screen or other display screen.”
If you’re working remotely from a computer, what you’re doing perfectly fits the definition of a video game. 
Nik Milanovic nailed it:
Hit the right keys in the right order, make money. Work is just an often boring sub-game within the meta-game. 
But that’s still a little literal, and a lot reductive. Let’s go deeper. The best games, according to gaming entrepreneur turned top solo investor Josh Buckley [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uhDAMhU8zWaL8hyyy6KbXQCF4IB1IUGI64vYNw6KSZcuy7Of3BY8w53K6PVckVxrw3MEleNcVEKGQo0IZ4uSY5r1Q0pLJyYn1qiexDs8CsPm4OiwHkP0Y1xg8xpw-G5RyRRZHjfLCUt-bYJ6aS2mMBuaBjsxbauSt648pQgrg4BfKmROQ1S2Ie32Irwf_boHveH3Uhby17ifXZTzCa4WTRMcpZ1Qxyrji1Haso7zvhQ7Ccy9GbjVXz6CZlkIZC8Gyh6TbzLt6jBV9eF1HSXEp45hLTHMbvxa_wfoZNGNDq9uRIp4DJD-uMN2e8Ub3oTDMkKA0pNPg8QJGtWJMGCPE7bFBEZoZIa0lTXnKbSv9i_4BKBCEFQ], “are creating spaces that bring you into flow.” 
On Invest Like the Best [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkdtuwyAMhp-m3LXiEHK44GLStNeIHHBaVgIRmE15-9HmYpJlW7bs3_psgfCe8mH2VIi93EzHjibibwlIhJnVgnn2zohejkp3E3Omc2LUI_NlXjPiBj4YyhXZXpfgLZBP8T3BudTsYUCJAdwKDrTqhXKaw6AELuicHLXlpy5U5zFaNPiD-UgRWTAPor1c1MdFfjX7Tj7aFFIptdxs2loJd1-Sw9JSoaXoOjG0dKn2GfC4eoeR_Hr4eL8GvGN0kI9rIch0ra_FXwTLRX1Shlhs9jsxbySXgmvBhdSSTzdx43IcVW8VSFCLnHqpV9uLvlN6mNBO4tLx7S5vpS5ts32-LmPZxERLyk25tZ8P2DC8Gw3R3OJWo6djxghLQHfSo_MJb55zOxZze46bgV7oea-FUMOg1Emr4W0sB9VNE2vKLrWp-C_6B_IPnvs], Buckley said:
The biggest games today really take advantage of this, but you wouldn't actually think of them as a game. I look at Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram as games and 3 billion people are playing them actively. They're essentially big layers on top of a slot machine.
Buckley went on to lay out four elements of successful game design: 
Frequent Feedback Loops
Variable Outcomes 
Sense of Control
Connection to a Meta-Game
All four are present in the Great Online Game, none more importantly than the connection to the meta-game. 
The Great Online Game 
“The internet is incredible.” You’ll hear that a lot from people who’ve started to master the Game. As I typed that last sentence, Blake Robbins tweeted this: 
Getting good at the Great Online Game makes seemingly absurd things happen. Your business icon? In your DMs. That person whose videos you don’t miss? Just reached out for a collab. Your dream job? Reaching out to you to tell you why Company X might be a fit. 
Blake has successfully translated “hanging out on the edges of the internet” into a career as a venture capitalist at Ludlow Ventures. He’s a go-to source on creators, gaming, and future internet stuff more broadly for some of the smartest people in the world. Blake summarized his approach in another recent tweet: 
He’s playing an infinite game, going down rabbit holes, learning, helping people, meeting new ones, going down more rabbit holes, and so on. 
James Carse, who coined the term in his 1986 book Finite and Infinite Games: A Vision of Life as Play and Possibility [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhCAUhp9m2NVwEZQFi6bJNO1LGC5Hh4yCAayxT19GF03IDzmXfOSzusAU06HWmAt6xVCOFVSAPc9QCiS0ZUiDd4oI2jPeSuRU60jPe-TzMCaARftZlbQBWjcze6uLj-HcwJhy9FCmBQOcEst176RxbJSctVpY2TltGL64enMeggUFP5COGADN6lHKmm_s_Ubv9ez73uhF_8bQ2LjUwt0HX-DtK4zX41MvkN--z_zQKUOdcWsN0naiY6QjDHlFMSWYE0wop1g2pMG075mwTFPNDJWC8tEKIlrGOwlWkluLl4k2eTO5aPt8wVFSIRYTkw9TbT8flTmfjepgqPey1R8dAwRtZnCXnnJZPoUNEwRI1b4bdHm5xYITwrqOsUtH9ccE6VgrJapkF-tW-If-AeiukcE], wrote:
The infinite game - there is only one - includes any authentic interaction, from touching to culture, that changes rules, plays with boundaries and exists solely for the purpose of continuing the game. A finite player seeks power; the infinite one displays self-sufficient strength. Finite games are theatrical, necessitating an audience; infinite ones are dramatic, involving participants...
The Great Online Game is an infinite video game that plays out constantly across the internet. It uses many of the mechanics of a video game, but removes the boundaries. You’re no longer playing as an avatar in Fortnite or Roblox; you’re playing as yourself across Twitter, YouTube, Discords, work, projects, and investments. People who play the Great Online Game rack up points, skills, and attributes that they can apply across their digital and physical lives. Some people even start pseudonymous and parlay their private brilliance into jobs and money. 
The Game rewards community and cooperation over individualism and competition. You get points for being curious, sharing, and helping with no expectation of reciprocation. By increasing your surface area, you’re opening yourself up to serendipity. For good actors, the Game has nearly unlimited upside, and practically no downside.
You can jump into the Great Online Game at any point, whether as a total unknown or an accomplished person, and start building the world that you want to build. It can take you on any number of paths. We’ll explore a few. 
Meet The Players 
The inspiration for this essay was Elon Musk’s SNL appearance [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2KhDAQhJ_GHCU_JppDDssuA8O-wN4kP60TRhM3JiO-_ep4WGi6oYuiqM_qDGNMu1rimtG5-rwvoAJs6wQ5Q0JlhdR7p4igHeONRE41jnS8Q37thwQwaz-pnAqgpZjJW519DG8HxpSjh7JkwM4QMjQtlY43jRk6AcIIIK3Dg7tydXEeggUFL0h7DIAm9ch5WSv2UdHbMdu21XssuRiobZzPj872UbHbq2Jfw-etu_c_5Pf7jryimBLMCSaUUyxrUmPadUxYpqlmhkpB-WAFEQ3jrQQrSdXgeaT1WsyatX2eASipELOJyYfxkJ8PPcP0Fo6i_XHnEnzeewjaTOAuBvlC-abSjxAgHYhdr_MJEAtOCGtbxq7OByQmSMsaKdGR7OLhCv-hf8OTiRU]. No one plays this game better than Musk. The best way to explain his out-of-body run is that he’s playing a video game with cheat codes.
He’s doing things that people didn’t think were physically possible -- see: Tesla, SpaceX, Starlink -- while getting away with things that people didn’t think were legal -- see: pumping Dogecoin, $420 take-private tweet, getting high on Joe Rogan. 
He’s playing a postmodern game against modern rivals. He’s like Neo. He’s not trying to forcefully bend the spoon; he understands there is no spoon. He has more money points than all but two people in the world to show for it.
Musk plays an advanced version of the Game in which he builds rocket ships and electric cars and internet satellites, but you don’t need to bend atoms or become the wealthiest person in the solar system to win. You don’t even have to reveal yourself as a real person. 
A couple weeks ago, Austin Rief [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OgzAMhU_TLFH-IYssZtNrRCEYGhUSlJipuP2EshjJsmVZ9vP7gkdYcjntniuSKzk8d7AJPnUFRCjkqFBcnCzTfBBKGjJZObFBDSRWNxeAzcfVYjmA7Me4xuAx5vTdoJQr8rJy1jNlQQBoBYaDkoozA0KNA6jQ97euP6YIKYCFXyhnTkBW-0Lc60P8PPizBX7i9VEX8tY6f1SMyZUIM4mWU86oYpRxxanpWEf5MAgdhOdejNxoruagmZZC9QaCYQ9Jt4V39Rgr-vC-jpJiU8Yxl5iWNn6__Abrd9CMuVa3I0U8HSQ_rjDdnvFG96XgFkhQGtLJebyAUa0YE30vxO2xQRGa9UIaQ5rylNtW-hf9A6FdhH0] and I had Bored Elon Musk [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCN-AoEFi1Zqdz1DRMCTQZNABE5HuX3JZFEJsNCT_fw-7xDmXA675YrkfEY8NrAJXnUBRChkr1DGGCxTXAvZGxJsH5iWmsQ63gvA6uJisexAtn1aoncYc3p3UMoledjJU9PuIJmngjrv3TBpo3vqQCtxHy5ft4cIyYOFXyhHTkAW-0Dc6k183Ph3O_iK50adz2v7feYC4WvJ6WevTxItp5xRySjjklPTsY5yrYXywnEnJm4Ul3evmOqFHAx4w249XWfe1X2q6PzzHEuKTRmnXGKam_x8uBWWt9Cija2ue4p4jJDctEC4UuMF781hnCFBaVDD6PBERpVkTAyDEFfKhkUoNojeGNKcQ25d6d_0D9jEhUM] on our weekly Twitter Spaces show, Spaces Cadets. Bored Elon is a pseudonymous account. He tweets ideas for inventions that Elon might have if he were bored, and 1.7 million people follow him on Twitter. A couple months ago, he started selling NFTs. He pulled in $1 million in less than a month. How about a non-Elon example?
Take Alex Danco [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU9TlhU_gcCCRaXRXAMRcFLUBCLiTCe3H9IsRrJsWZb9_L7gEaZSD7uWDcmZHB4r2AzvbQZEqGTfoLoULVNcC9kZEm0XmZaapM2NFWDxabZYdyDrPswpeEwlfzYo5ZI8rdKyC8EYrQIflRqND1oZPYYhRqGpuXT9HhPkABZ-oB4lA5ntE3HdbuJx498t8J3Oj-6hLK17zPDrvnwOhSTLKWdUMsq45NTc2Z1yrYUKwnMvBm4Ul2NQTHVC9gaCYbeOLhO_b_uwoQ-v8yapNhccSk15auPX0y8wfwbNl2t12XPCw0H2wwzxsowXuQ8EN0GG2ohG5_HkRZVkTPS9EJfFxkQo1ovOGNKUY2lb-V_0DwdWg_w]. Alex has literally built himself a world: Dancoland [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkEFuxCAMRU8zLCPAgYQFi256jYiAk0FNIAKnVW5fZrKoKlm25C_76z_vCNdcLnvkSuzVJroOtAl_6oZEWNhZsUwxWKHlCKo3LNg-iFGNLNZpKYi7i5ulciI7znmL3lHM6X3BuVTsab1YNCzoQjBGzF56WAbu-bCADCagvn3dGSImjxa_sVw5Idvsk-ioD_h4yM9WwSWfu3rOlZz_6nze25JFK7kUXAkupJLcdKLjchxBe3DSwSyNlmrxWuge1GDQG_Ho-b7Kf59YsSnTnEtMa5O_nm7H7S20UFOb-5kiXRMmN28Y7rx0Y3sTmFZMWBrOMDl6weJaCQHDAHDna0BAiwF6Y1hzDrldpT_TX-Slg0Y]. In an excellent post on his journey, Alex drew an actual map of his journey through the Great Online Game. 
He started by writing about startups, moved on to bubbles and mania, passed through the Swamp of Scenes, and made it to the Humanities Mountain Range. While he wrote, he got to meet new people, test new ideas, and build up a reputation. It helped him find his next thing. “This newsletter was obviously part of a fishing expedition to find what I wanted to do next.” Next was a dream job at Shopify, thanks in part to the newsletter. 
Instead of claiming MISSION ACCOMPLISHED, though, he’s continuing to play the Great Online Game, expanding his world by branching into new communities. Specifically, he’s going to have a recurring segment on Jim O’Shaughnessy [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAQRL9mOBqgAeXAYS_7GwahR9lRMIA78e8Xx8MmHTqkUhT1nK04p3yaPZVKrmOs544m4rusWCtmchTMY_CGKT6AFJp4Izwb5EBCGZ8ZcbNhNTUfSPZjWoOzNaT4cVDKJVkMlXRSTGsn9ABP4SbGACR40MLDU7I71x4-YHRo8BfzmSKS1Sy17uUBXw_-3aa-w_WjzqWt3X6aa7HHvEQs5STBcMoZlYwyLjnVHesoHwZQDiy3MHGtuHw6xZQA2Wt0mj0E3WbelWMq1brX9S7JJqY6pRzi3OTXYjdcP0LrNra9HTHUc8RopxX9Xbve9D4gxhkj5kbVj7ZezKiSrW7fA9w1GxdQrAehNWnJPjVX_A_9A8zthT0]’s Infinite Loops podcast [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU_T7DT8iMqCxWzmGgahtEkrECjH8fZDt4tJKlWLV69e5bMGYY350ikWJO824ZVABzjLBoiQyVEgT95p1vNRyE4RpzvHRjkSX6YlA-zGbxrzASQd8-atQR_Dx0Epl-SpZ5BSsRmYddaBUAo4A2c7a8durNKdaw7nIVjQ8AP5igHIpp-IqTzE14N_1zrPs_Vh8cEjbDGmkqKzpmBr415ls8Fv40ywsSnPmPxyNSUZW5qCBo_SQOJDXSNec8oZlYwyLjlVLWspH0fRW2G4ETNXPZeL7VnfCTkosIo9OrqvvC3HXG_Z1zuQZB0izjH7sFb59TQ7bB-hUpjq3I_65zVBMPMG7gaEN-cPsmmFALnyd5PBN13aS8bEMAhxA6kERc8G0SlFarKL1RX-Q_8ADB-VvQ] and become a more active participant in Anna Gat [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OgzAMhU_TLKvEIQEWWXQzc4HZo_y4EBUSFMxU3H5CWYxk2bIs-_l93hKOuRxmzRuxMw10rGgSvrcZibCwfcMyxGCEhk6qpmfBNEF0qmNxG54FcbFxNlR2ZOvu5ugtxZw-G5yDYpMBDw1IBO9kL512TgvHQ1C1RVAuXLp2DxGTR4O_WI6ckM1mIlq3m3zc4KsGveP50d3npXY_Ez5Sst-WWDTAQXAluAAFvL-LO4euk9pLC1Y66DWop9dCN1K1Pfpe3Bq-jHDfdreR9a_zJismZXK5xDTW8WuyC86fQfU11LrsKdIxYLJuxnBZpovcB8IwYsJSiYbB0smLayWEbFspL4uVidSilU3fs6occt1K_6J_Ga-ECQ]’s magical Interintellect [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuxCAMRb9mWI54PxYsuulvRARMBg2BiJBW-fuSyaKSZUu27Ot7vOuw1Hbare4dXWnq5wa2wO-eoXdo6NihTSlYIqlmghsULA9EC43SPsUGsLqUbW8HoO2Yc_Kup1o-GxhTgV42Gs3nKGQ0QTEjVXSK46glp55ErPSt646QoHiw8APtrAVQtq_et_3Bvh70e0Qq458r5Qy-P31dRxMlSzElWBBMqKDYPMkTU62Z9MxRx2ZqJBXRSyI5E8qAN-TB8brQ537Me3f-fV1CzZba5zruL2P8frkV8mcwTE2jrkdJ_ZyguDlDuP32G9uHwLRAgTZwhsn1CxaWghCmFGO3vwGESaIYNwYN5VDHVvkX_QMXx4Ka]. Those will no doubt lead to new opportunities and new worlds to explore.
To learn about more of the players, how crypto supercharges the game, and how to play…
Thanks to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBr-CMqBw172NQyWjkNGwUDdjW-_OB42ado0Tfv1-4EnXHI53Z4rsStNdO7oEv7WFYmwsKNimWJwwshR6d6y4PogRj2yWKdnQdx8XB2VA9l-zGsETzGnzwbnUrOXg9kYGyTXEJQOYvbwhDBqGJQRow_y1vVHiJgAHf5gOXNCtroX0V4f6ushv1vQb7w-6iBvrQt-A8hli_AWikUnuRRcCy6kltx2ouNyHJUB5aVXs7RG6icYYXqlB4tgxaPn2yK7esyVPLyvs6y4lGnOJaaljd8vv-H6GTRrU6vbkSKdEyY_rxhu13TD-3CYFkxYGtQwebqQcaOFUMOg1O2yYWmuB9Vby5pyyG0r_Yv-ARt9hW4], Dror [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM-OhCAMxp9mOBr-CMqBw172NUiFjkNWwWDdiW-_OB42ado0Tfv1-wUgnEs93VZ2YlfydG7oMr73BYmwsmPH6lN0wshR6d6y6PooRj2ytPtnRVwhLY7qgWw7piUFoFTyZ4NzqdnL6WFQOgAaAwAGQYuBYxgiPHlvudC3LhwxYQ7o8BfrWTKyxb2Itv2hvh7yuwW90_VRF8raulhL3cqCM0tOcim4FlxILbntRMflOCoTFEhQk7RG6mcwwvRKDxaDFY-er7Ps9mPaCcLPdZJVlwtNpaY8t_HPC1ZcPoNmy7e6HjnR6THDtGC8HdMN7sPAz5ixNqDRA124uNFCqGZe3Q4bEmXEoHprWVOOpW3lf9E_x2uD-A], and Puja [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM2OhCAQhJ9muI2BRlAOHPayr2H4aZUdBYO4xrdfZjxs0qlOqtKp9OdMwSnlS29pL-QtQ7k21BHPfcFSMJNjxzwEr5mEnotWEa9bz3rRk7APY0ZcTVh0yQeS7bBLcKaEFD8XlIIgsx6l9eA7D7ZnbQfUtiMTSvYj5Ub0nb17zeEDRocafzFfKSJZ9FzKtj_41wO-65zn2SwhvtCH2Li0VivEKtvxY552NqU8FZVgjRTVJUEDBUYFowwEUNWwhkLfc-m4AcMtKAlidJLJlotOoVPs0dJ1gmY_7F6Me71LSNYxFZtyiFONX7NZcfkE9duh7vWIoVwDRmMX9DeIcvP8oBkmjJgrZz-Y8qZIpWCMdx3n9-OVFJes461SpDb7VK_if-kfleOJ0g] for editing!
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2KxCAQhU8Tl0GtaHThYmDoawSjlbRMokFND7n92J3FQP1APR6v-JytuKZ8mSOVSt5jqteBJuJv2bBWzOQsmKfgDZNcgRg08WbwTAlFQpmWjLjbsJmaTyTHOW_B2RpS_Dgo5YI8DVjplLXeD8rBsqBTGgYFA6BcFiv8nWtPHzA6NPjCfKWIZDPPWo_SwVfHH63KmV94lf790Yb26ENq11EKKaA1BSWWUQMHPeIIUssBLDAAEC2LdvDIHXwLEgynnFHBKOOCU92znnKlQDqw3MLMteRicZI1vxg1Os26ge4r78s5l2rdT-_STrKJqc4ph7g2-edpd9w-QqMwtb2fMdRrwmjnDf0NqN6cP8imFSPmxt9Ptr7pUikYg3EEuIE0giDZCIPWpCX71FzxP_QPyy6Org] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OwyAMhU8TlhFgILBgMdKo14gIOC2aBCIgHeX2Q9vFSP6RbD0_6_Ou4T2Xyx65NvIqc7sOtAl_64atYSFnxTLHYJniGqQwJFgRmJaaxDqvBXF3cbOtnEiOc9midy3m9FZQyiV52KDWIBQVnOvVe-2Ux3VVDLQMDLXwH193hojJo8UnlisnJJt9tHbUAb4GfutRz_LEq46vjzZ0xxhzn05KKgk9aT-4TgY4mAknUEYJcMAAQIIAOsCtDPAtSLScckYlo4xLTs3IRsq1BuXBcQcLN4rL1SvW9XIy6A0bBN3vfKznUpvzP6PPOyk25bbkEtO9r38ebsftvegU5t73M8V2zZjcsmH4AGofzm9k8x0Tls4_zK696FIlGYNpAvgA6QRBsQmEMaQ7h9xV6d_0D0sqjko] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuKxCAQRb8mLoNaPhcuBob-jWBMpVsm0aCmh_z92N2LgXpAXS63OME3vOdyuSPXRl5jateBLuFv3bA1LOSsWKa4OKa4ASksWZxYmJGGxDqtBXH3cXOtnEiOc95i8C3m9HZQyiV5OBPkDLMPixaGitVYpELZVawUkPmgPrn-XCKmgA6fWK6ckGzu0dpRB_ga-K1XPcsTrzq-PtrQH2PM_aqVVBJ6UzBy1RY4WI0alFUCPDAAkCCADnArA3wDiY5TzqhklHHJqR3ZSLkxoAJ47mHmVnG5BsW6X2qLwbJB0P3Ox3rOtfnwM4a8k-JSbnMuMd27_PPwO25voVOY-t7PFNs1YfLzhssHUPtwfiOb7piwdP7L5NuLLlWSMdAa4AOkEwTFNAhrSU9ecnel_9A_CDeOFA] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2KxCAQhU8Tl0EtNbpwMTD0NYLR6m6ZRIOaHnL7sTuLgfqBejxe8XnX8JHLafdcG3mPuZ072oS_dcXWsJCjYpljsExxDVIYEqwITEtNYp3vBXFzcbWtHEj2Y1mjdy3m9HFQyiV5Whdk4Ep4Z6QCIYz2nitN-R010EWwK9cdIWLyaPGF5cwJyWqfre11gK-B33rVo7zwrOP7oxXdPsbcr5OSSkJvClreJwMczIQTKKMEOGAAIEEAHeBWBvjmJFpOOaOSUcYlp2ZkI-Vag_LguIOFG8Xl3SvW_XIy6A0bBN0efKzHUpvzP6PPGyk25bbkEtOjyz9Pt-H6ETqFue_tSLGdMya3rBguQO3i_EE2PzBh6fzD7NqbLlWSMZgmgAtIJwiKTSCMIT055O5K_6F_TC-Nfg] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU8jSwOUgCxYTDLpaxiE0iajYAB74u2HbheT1E9SlVev8jlbcU35MkcqlbzLVK8DTcTfsmGtmMlZME_BGyb5CGLQxJvBs1GMJJRpyYi7DZup-URynPMWnK0hxY-CUi7I03hQTFnntbazlgt68NJJRRc7SgGM3b729AGjQ4MvzFeKSDbzrPUoHXx1_NGinPmFV-nfH21ojz6kNlVStCstKYxiURo4aIUKpJYDWGAAIGAA2sEjd_DNSDCcckYFo4wLTnXPesrHEaQDyy3MXEsuFidZ0wul0WnWDXRfeV_OuVTrfnqXdpJNTHVOOcS1rX-edsfts2gUptb3M4Z6TRjtvKG_AdWb8wfZtGLE3Pj7ydY3XSoFY6AUwA2kEQTJFAxak-bsU1PFf9M_EV2OFw]
Thanks for reading and see you on Monday,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkltvozAQhX9NeES-AMEPPFRN6JKWVLvNpklekLEnicO12CyFX78mkXYly7bOaHys843gBi5NN0Zto40zb5kZW4hqGHQJxkDn9Bq6TMkIBySkvsccGXkSh37oKJ2dO4CKqzIyXQ9O2-elEtyopr53IER85xpRGoRUnNFZ-igEhjjDlAWYejwHICAfvryXCmoBEfyBbmxqcMroakyrF_RpQWK7hmFw68bkTafqiysaK3Exm9mLVJrnJWT33yxobJoC6gVdwbjBguzHAymL5NZ8b2-Jl06_0fvHoMQLm2TM2tNzEqTT8Xs7peh9V-ikKq9y1nbHMV0dcbpbT1s1KH7YTvYNJX7s1dtuPaSrBCdWF3SvZv30Uk7Hz40-7VmZf8Zt_rxh7ttr2sa39itdwUeFTn6x-iVWdP262z_pw0F_oTIOfr7Jddx7jooIIhj5GGHiE8Rc7CIShjQQlBNOc8IC4p9FgAOP-ksGguGFh6oLcXWfa8NFYVOpnC76l5ItF1deQXkvWD6ZPau-VmbMoJ4Tkw905jEB9_iyC9TQ2cmQGTczdxT4GNPlktIHKsuWBnhJPcYc6ywb21X_N_0L_yrIFA