# Trust the Process

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Trust the Process_Mon,_2_Nov_2020_13-52-23_+0000_175893d509b97bfb.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:06.368180

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMtqxDAMRb8m3k3wK5nMwovZ9DeCH2pixrGDLbekX183gZaChUEX6eheqxGWlA-1p4KkFsizd4qNfBKDfBCnpGPTMBFf5vcMsGkfFOYKZK8meKvRp3hOUMoHsiorhTSDlZTe4X43Uo9GS6HZaAczjs6SH86sq_MQLSj4gHykCCSoFXEvnXh2_K29mNCk7OPSl2oKavvqbdqasLdqBxS84Qq3PScLpRCvOOWUMcqZGDgXPetDrSDlF6a1k3Rb-L9FJKtfQpNfq94gnELzNbd_q9HjMUPUJoC7LOMV0ukAjx1UhM8SABHy1TyTm4R80Ik0mkstrvgH-gaCgn3o

Welcome to the 577 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since the last email! If you’re reading this but haven’t subscribed, join 19,190 smart, curious folks by subscribing here!
🎧  If you want The Process in your ears, I’ll post it on Spotify [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtqwzAURL_GWhq9HDsLLVLatKUthaSbdGNk-ToWkSVXjyTu19dxFoULAzNcDjNKRjg6P4nRhYhSAF_rVpAVrVjB16gVvCVVUSEd6s4DDFIbEX0CNKbGaCWjdnb5wJgWqBe8a1e4LLpCUoV5U7C1JEzRiuKSQFUydOPUMrUarAIBZ_CTs4CM6GMcQ8Y2Gd3O50aweRhd1N2UKzfMVujdZZbViRzeH86fu93H5MLbxK7k-moytg06Y4_1dzm0oH6-9vuDv_QvcL08P22QFhRTTAimhBWUspzkJiXg_De6PuN4ONI8pCZEqU43HPLCutg4r-1xjk-9HMAswdy7nnVIVsepBisbA-19kngfcWkYpxGEhUswECP4u7ksWzG-xhWaaa2b57T_oD_fCYbo] within the hour.
Hi friends 👋,
Happy Monday! This is, uhh, an important week here in the United States. With nearly 100 million early votes already in, tomorrow is officially Election Day. If you haven’t voted already, let this serve as one of hundreds of reminders you’ll get today across the internet: VOTE. Find the nearest polling place or early voting locations here: 
Because it’s not a normal week, I’m not going to write a normal post today. I’ll keep it short(er) and sweet and highlight leadership lessons from my favorite piece of writing: former Philadelphia 76ers GM Sam Hinkie’s Resignation Letter [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUDuO7CAQPM0QWvzsxQHBJnsNhKE9RoPBguZZfqdfxhOs1OpSf0tVziI8c7n0kSuSVqGY4DWbuBKjnInX0jM1KhKqWQvAbkPUWBqQoy0xOIshp_uCUj6STQvBOKzzZEEJ-zUqPnEJYnGzVXYe5UrePMY2HyA50PAPypUTkKg3xKM-xPeD__Q4z3OAeqTB5b2Xh1975pRNHaikb0iLNVtIrwCmgLcOh75Fgua07zHKmRg5FwMbYmsg5X_M20PS_cmH2paK1r3ez0nRKeOSS0jPPn5tdod4D7pC03FvKeBlINklgv-Ix49dtxa8DtAJzhoBEcqneXuohJypIp3N525c-iP6BSSTfos].
I’m a huge Sixers fan, so I’m biased, but I promise you don’t even need to know what basketball is to appreciate Sam Hinkie, The Process, and the courage to do the hard thing in the face of ridicule. As one former Sixers colleague told SI [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuhDAM_BpyA-UBLBxy6KW_gRwwS7QhQYlTRL--WfZQyZqRbVkznhkInyFe-giJWE4YJ7to0ctBde3IFt0uYugGZtO0RsQdrNMUM7IjG2dnIBv8fcG57NimH2vPgY_AcTQSZG9WVEIM62M0veKSs7fOBHmx6GfU-IPxCh6Z0xvRkSr1VcnvUud5Nsk2c9hL4w0UlFz0hYQooHiBBHu9Wf-yWMNKGGvasD5imDGl-tisgwVdYagfPcbErJbFgRBcCtVJqRrRuJyxbX8pbFXL96dsUjaJYH69lVnUPpAJ0fpnWb822NHdi_L8VHjP3tI1oQfjcPnkQp8k7zfpOlB7PJNDKv4-wzveQbUjH1hRW0LJ1P8L_QGC2Iea], Hinkie’s approach “could be applied to a draft or an apartment search or a dating website.”
I’ve been wanting to write about the letter for a while, and this week is right for two reasons. 
First, last week, the Sixers hired former Rockets GM, Daryl Morey, to become their President of Basketball Operations. Morey made waves last year when he tweeted in solidarity with the Hong Kong protestors, but for our purposes, what’s relevant is that Hinkie was Morey’s protege in Houston before he joined the Sixers. As ESPN’s Pablo Torre put it, “The Philadelphia 76ers kind of just hired their ex-wife’s older sister.” With Morey and new coach Doc Rivers, the post-Process era is officially over, and The Process is back! 
Second, tomorrow, the United States is electing a (hopefully new) President. It’s a good time to reflect on what makes a good leader, and Hinkie’s stoicism and peaceful transition out of the Sixers organization is an example that I hope Trump follows. Of course, I abhor Trump because I think he’s morally bankrupt and is willing to destroy Democracy for personal gain. But even if you’re willing to accept his personal flaws, he’s also an inexcusably short-term thinker, constantly trading what’s popular with his supporters today even for what’s in their best interest tomorrow. He’s the opposite of Sam Hinkie. No complex organization can survive a leader incapable of recognizing the long-term implications of their actions, including the United States. Vote.
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… 
MainStreet [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCP-kpAFi256jYiAJ0FDIALTKj19mURqJUuW_fT0-dkahDXlUx-pIKkF8uydZgNXopcTcVo6pnpFfJmfGWA3PmjMFchRl-CtQZ_i5aCU92TTw8B6xUc3STNaKYbBCe5GNjgLioqnIG_ObKrzEC1o-IJ8pggk6A3xKA_x8eCfrRooFmxE7Gppc0y4pOzjSrzmlFPGKGei51x0rAu1gpQ_mLaHpPvKu1KXgsa-Opt2kvWfucmvzewQLqFFmFvfa_R4zhDNEsDd6fD-x3UsngfoCN8lACLke3k9SQk5UUUazaX3wf-gX8JCdbE] is free money for startups. You sign up and plug in your payroll, MainStreet finds tax credits and incentives that apply to your business, and then they send you money now. 
I wrote about MainStreet in September [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuhDAM_JrNDZQXCxxy2Et_AyXEu0QbEpQ4rejXN4DUqpItSx7bM55ZI7xi2tUWM5KSIU3OKnbng-jkSKySlg3dQFyenglg1c4rTAXIVox3s0YXw7lBKe_IorR5at7fBXR9r8feMGONhXGUvZkZE3dy8Ey6WAdhBgWfkPYYgHi1IG75Jh43_lEjRDQxufBqczEZ9fxu57hWYKtZVYSMVQ42h6hmrRf25hlTUycTli0TpzjllDHKmeg4Fy1rfSkg5TfG5Sbp-uL_LpOkfikr_F70Cv4E6qNTrWsJDvcJgjYe7OUBXq6dL-G-gQrwlT0gQrqap5WDkCMdSGWz8VD-R_QD3OGE1w], and maybe you didn’t believe me then. I get it. But since then, MainStreet has found over $1 million for Not Boring readers. That’s $1 million of government money in Not Boring companies’ pockets — an average of $50k — for like 20 minutes of work each.
If you run or work for a US business that does anything technical, you need to check out how much money MainStreet can send you today. You don’t owe them anything unless you get paid.
Now let’s get to it. 
Trust The Process
For 1,062 painful and glorious days, between May 10, 2013 and April 6, 2016, my hometown, Philadelphia, transformed. 
Known as the type of people who booed Santa Claus [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuxCAM_JpwjHiEDTlw6KW_ERFwE7QEIjAbpV9fNnuoZHtkW_ZoxhqENeVLH6kgqQXy7J1mD66EHCbi9OCYkor4Mv9kgN34oDFXIEddgrcGfYr3BaVckk0_rHsIKYxkE-fUCKOEEtRZavnERuDkzTOb6jxECxpekK8UgQS9IR6lE18d_25xnmcP5Yi9TXtrX95BamiDPxrMLb1rZRSjlGwkXnPKKWOUMyE5Fz3rQ60wDL-Ytm6g-8r7UpeCxj7fL0nWMeGSso9rWz83s0O4F03X3HCv0eM1QzRLAPeRjB-TbgV4HaAjnCUAIuTP8HZOiWGiijQ2l5pd8Z_oD4Grefk], Philly fans started talking about such highbrow concepts as undervalued assets, probabilities, and compounding. Always the heart of pro sports, Philly became the brain.
The reason? Sam Hinkie and The Process.
In Two Ways To Predict the Future [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkN1qwzAMhZ-mvkvwb-te-KI3e43g2Gpj6tjBlleyp5-XwsZAQqCD9HGOswiPXHaz5YqkVShT8IaduRZKXok30jOtNAl1uheA1YZosDQgW5tjcBZDTscFpVyRxbizYNSrC3WOS6u1pupulRQXrearEzP54Uy2-QDJgYFPKHtOQKJZELd6ErcT_-iVMs65hPQYa5srWvccXV67sPXGVx5edq8D5mEr4IPDARcY7g1bARIMp5wyRjkTinMxsjG2BlJ-YV5Okq4P_u8rKeYX1-XnYleIh9BNTn2uLQXcJ0h2juDf_vGd2GEH9w1MgleNgAjlvTxi1EJeqSad5nPPLv2BvgGcbYI0], I compared two different types of leaders: Worldbuilders and Shotcallers. 
Shotcallers attack big, obvious markets and use brute force and big budgets to win. Shotcallers are like athletes -- Joe Naimath guaranteed a Super Bowl victory, Babe Ruth literally called his shot, and the Yankees spend their way into contention every year. In the business world, Quibi [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkNFqxCAQRb9mfdugxuyaBx_60t8IkzhJZI2mOrakX19JoKXgIMzlzuHeCQiXmA6zx0ysZEyDs0Y8pG471TNrlBW608zlYU6IGzhvKBVkexm9m4BcDKeDc9mx1bTPCWHuJXDd607JTgDMI0eAZ2_nufoqZ4BiHYYJDX5iOmJA5s1KtOdb-3aT7_WFSGNMLixNLmMmmF7NFLcq7HWW6ri7cH_w-0dxo8vMGcklF4JL0XZSto1ofCmo1DfF9ab4tsh_h1gyv4Qqv1bY0J9CzTXUfyvB0TFggNGjvSLTVdKZgI4dTcCv7JEI07U8m9Ot6rlmlWZjrSv8gX4Ajk59qQ] was a Shotcaller. It thought it could use a $1.75 billion war chest to storm in and own mobile video.  
Worldbuilders see the way the world should be in the future, lay out a clear vision and unintuitive plan to get there, and patiently execute for years or decades to achieve it, often in the face of vociferous criticism. Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, Carta’s Henry Ward, and Stripe’s Collison Brothers are Worldbuilders. 
Hinkie is a Worldbuilder. 
Hinkie’s Process, his three year term as the Sixers’ GM, is textbook Worldbuilding. He had a vision for an NBA Championship in Philadelphia, charted a probabilistic path to get there, and then did the unconventional, criticism-attracting things required to make it happen.
If Hinkie’s Process is textbook Worldbuilding, his Resignation Letter [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUDuO7CAQPM0QWvzsxQHBJnsNhKE9RoPBguZZfqdfxhOs1OpSf0tVziI8c7n0kSuSVqGY4DWbuBKjnInX0jM1KhKqWQvAbkPUWBqQoy0xOIshp_uCUj6STQvBOKzzZEEJ-zUqPnEJYnGzVXYe5UrePMY2HyA50PAPypUTkKg3xKM-xPeD__Q4z3OAeqTB5b2Xh1975pRNHaikb0iLNVtIrwCmgLcOh75Fgua07zHKmRg5FwMbYmsg5X_M20PS_cmH2paK1r3ez0nRKeOSS0jPPn5tdod4D7pC03FvKeBlINklgv-Ix49dtxa8DtAJzhoBEcqneXuohJypIp3N525c-iP6BSSTfos] is the Worldbuilding Textbook. It’s a rare glimpse into the thinking behind a genius leader’s strategy mid-stream, at a moment in time in which The Process was ongoing and the outcome still to be determined, but when Hinkie had no NDA to honor (the letter was supposed to be private) and no fucks to give. 
The letter doesn’t seem like it was written by a sports guy. It’s more like a Jeff Bezos or Warren Buffett letter, if Bezos and Buffett retired and no longer had any trade secrets to protect. The lessons in it are as applicable to investing and company building as they are to building an NBA contender. That makes sense. Sam Hinkie isn’t like most sports guys. 
Who is Sam Hinkie? 
Sam Hinkie sits at the center of my personal interest Venn Diagram: Philly sports, tech, and investing. 
Hinkie’s path isn’t like most NBA GMs’. He didn’t play pro ball, or even college. He didn’t work his way up through the ranks. He wasn’t a traditional “basketball guy.” His path looked more like an investor’s, a skillset he brought to bear on a league full of basketball guys.
After graduating from the University of Oklahoma in Y2K, Hinkie spent two years consulting at Bain and another in private equity before getting his MBA at Stanford and heading to the Houston Rockets. There, he served as Special Assistant to the GM, Daryl Morey, the founder of the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference that is the heartbeat of the advanced metrics movement. Morey and Hinkie built a culture and strategy around using statistics and analytical thinking in a league in which most decisions were made based on “eye tests” by “basketball guys.” 
Hinkie took his talents to the Philadelphia 76ers in 2013, where he undertook one of the most ambitious experiments in NBA history: The Process. 
When the Sixers hired Hinkie, it turned rooting for the Sixers from an exercise in futility, frustration, and boos into a quasi-intellectual pursuit. In the eyes of the fans, Hinkie transformed from a stats guy to a cult hero. Hinkie is a larger-than-life legend among a certain type of Sixers fan (seriously, read this Ringer piece [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkUGOhCAQRU_T7DSAqPSCxWzmGgawuiUiGCjGOKcftBeTEH5Rlcr_eViN8I7pVHvMSEqGNLlZsYHLrhdPMisxM9lL4vL0SgCbdl5hKkD2YryzGl0M9walvCeLEkZ0zI6d7gc-ghmoFFbbQbLnaGkvDbl8Jl1mB8GCgh9IZwxAvFoQ9_zovh78u57jOFpcILnwhtTauNUep2ysMlwlqxcbaCdlf72z3prFhdVBsy_O6xl8Vd2MA6Tc7ClayLmZk35hs-m0gvfQvIrH38YYZuhAAYTuiVOcVhtGOet6zruWtb4UEOIX4_IQdHvzNheTUdv1SkWSChFNvHLW8broDfw9qHymqlsJDs8JgjYe5g86_MC-SeC5gwpwZA-IkD7N-wdkJ55Ukuo2x4o9_Bv9AeWIksU] or listen to an episode of The Rights to Ricky Sanchez [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkM1qwzAQhJ_GutXIkhzLBx1KQ0ouoUmgkF6MbW1sEVsS-klwn76Kcygs7DLD8jHTtwEG4xZhjQ8oenCNkqLYEE5LViMpmCx4yZHyzdUBzK2aRHARkI3dpPo2KKPXD4xJiUYh4QpVzyvMOwJ801PghHeUF7wFKGuMnpymjVKB7kHAHdxiNKBJjCFYn9H3jOzSGAs699YEdV3y3sxJAqu8kZAudrpU--HMfjbLvK2OenAfSv1kdOdVRrcgD5fZNOcTefu0h_33170-7h9ICYIJLgpMCloSQvMin2IExn6DGTOG54HkPnY-tP3tSUROaBM645Qekn0b2xmm1UjRm7TnqFVYGtBtN4F8tRJePa4hw2JBaHj4CUIA9xLXcjllNeYo0aRJjep_0B_hbof3] to understand) who “got it” before anyone else. Any time we landed a high draft pick, or won a game, or advanced in the playoffs, that group shouted, “We were right,” proud that we could understand the long game when no one else could. 
The league and Sixers ownership, on the other hand, did not get it. Fed up with losing, after 2.91 years in Philly, they pushed Hinkie out. But people in other fields did; he’s crossed over seamlessly into the world of tech and investing, where he now runs a venture capital firm.
I remember where I was when I knew he’d crossed over: walking across the Manhattan Bridge on my way home from work on a sunny May day, smiling as Hinkie dropped bombs on Invest Like the Best. 
It felt like my worlds colliding. Investors appreciate our guy, too. We were right. 
On Friday, after the Sixers hired Hinkie’s friend and former boss Daryl Morey, Hinkie did a rare interview, with Pablo Torre from ESPN:  
Worlds collided again. Startup people appreciate our guy, too. We were right. 
Lux Capital co-founder Josh Wolfe tweeted [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_Bo5Gl4qHjhsMpnfMCjtyA6CgWYn7tcv4xw26aRf6aquWgzCI6ZTHzEjKRnS5KxmPVeikyOxWlqmOkVcntYEsBvnNaYC5Cizd4tBF8N1QSnvyKZNxwwIwSw389IP1M7juopxVqsRinJB3jyTKdZBWEDDD6QzBiBeb4hHbsRXw-818OUQIbVL3Gv3in6F75i3Wmc0WHItmOB8YKxnVNJeDR0TQyPuFeLGKXGaU04Zo5yJjnPRstaXAlL-YtwaSfcHb3OZK9jyfJOQpEPEOSYXHnX93MwO_lpUoVPNewkOzwmCmT3Yjwf4ce2ShOcBOsAre3g__hleViohR6pIZbOx-hf-if4AAtR_dA], “Trust the podcast. Trust the process.” Ludlow Ventures’ Blake Robbins tweeted [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhaHgqHjjsZX_DgLYjGQQDzU7cr190Dpt00q90VVfNFuGZ8mmOVJDUAnnyi2E910LJkSxGLkwrTXyZ1gywWx8M5grkqC742aJP8b6glCuymbW3I1NOroL16zrwQa1cu9k1jH6ZNSUXz2Tr4iHOYOAH8pkikGA2xKM8xNeDf7fAt0eE3M1pb50L9gU-t6qgxVpawQTnA2eDkkrzYdRCtCcNp5wyRjkTinPRsS7UClL-Ytoeku5P3pXqGsb8upBJNjGhS9nHZ1u_NrtDuBdN3dTyXqPHc4JoXYDlIxw_Vt068DzARHiXANe3n-HtnxZypJo0tiU10-I_0R_aeXxD] that Hinkie is by far one of the smartest and most genuine people that he’s ever met, and said that “there is no one better at identifying (and betting on) young talent.” It’s that skill, along with a freakishly analytical mind and a humble courage, that translates so well from sports to tech and investing. 
Now, he’s putting those skills to the test in a new arena. In April, he raised $50 million [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOwyAMRU9TdomAkIQsWMxmrhE54DaoBCIwzXROP2m7GMmSZVvW038WCG8pP82eCrFaMM_eGTFI3fVqYs4oJ3SvmS_zNSNu4IOhXJHtdQneAvkU3x-cy56tBqTkwzDqBWAaFjFdFzcOo0QYpOvFINiLM0N1HqNFgw_MzxSRBbMS7eXSfV3k91nHcbTw41NpbdrOucDWrD7ePTYPjFQzNhZ2TxCaqbfTVfXXRsPIG6UAmgW1a0alx1Erbu2o25W2wLyRXHIhuBRdL2XXijbUikr9Ulovim832Za6FAJ7f3FZNjHRkrKPt_N8X2HD8D6c6eezbzV6es4YYQnoPmLoo_Kdk547mohHCUiE-bN8-9WdmrhmJ82lU2r8B_0BUZGHnQ] for a new venture fund called Eighty-Seven Capital, which he will manage while continuing to teach courses [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhSAQhE_z2D0DKI4uWMxmrmH4aZWIYKAZ45x-iC5e0kl3qtL5UmUUwhLTJY-YkZQMaXJWsp4PrehGYmVn2SAG4vI0J4BdOS8xFSBH0d4ZhS6G-4NSLsgqaW8FfM2KMWt7I6gZxNiPWhuwbOZt_aucSRXrIBiQ8AvpigGIlyvikV_t94v_1DnPs1mybjKqMMdkG7ClyrMyxeP1TpBBJbN-pHpltRfwb-3VBu_Vhc0BcZJTThmjnLWC87ZhjS8Fuu4P4_rq6L7wJhddMWZrTNxJkiGijsmFpdrbqnbwt1EDT3XvJTi8JghKe7BPF_i0d0fD6wAZ4MweECE94l3p0HYjHUil2Vh7DB_QP-cSh2k] on Negotiation and Sports Business Management at Stanford GSB. 
Hinkie’s approach translates across industries, from sports to tech to investing, and beyond. His tenure with the Sixers and the Resignation Letter he wrote to end it are chock full of lessons for anyone operating or investing in a competitive environment with limited resources. Take the long view, differentiate, and, of course, Trust the Process. 
The Process
When Sam Hinkie arrived in Philadelphia, the Sixers were the worst thing an NBA team could be: mediocre. They finished the 2012-2013 NBA season with 34 wins and 48 losses. Even worse, the team had a barren roster and no hope. As Sam Hinkie told ownership, reflecting back three years later, “Your crops had been eaten.”
The Sixers’ owners, private equity people themselves, brought in an unconventional savior to shake things up: Hinkie. 
Hinkie’s approach in Philadelphia was as unconventional as his background. SI described [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMtuhDAM_BpyA-UBLBxy6KW_gRwwS7QhQYlTRL--WfZQyZqRbVkznhkInyFe-giJWE4YJ7to0ctBde3IFt0uYugGZtO0RsQdrNMUM7IjG2dnIBv8fcG57NimH2vPgY_AcTQSZG9WVEIM62M0veKSs7fOBHmx6GfU-IPxCh6Z0xvRkSr1VcnvUud5Nsk2c9hL4w0UlFz0hYQooHiBBHu9Wf-yWMNKGGvasD5imDGl-tisgwVdYagfPcbErJbFgRBcCtVJqRrRuJyxbX8pbFXL96dsUjaJYH69lVnUPpAJ0fpnWb822NHdi_L8VHjP3tI1oQfjcPnkQp8k7zfpOlB7PJNDKv4-wzveQbUjH1hRW0LJ1P8L_QGC2Iea] it like this: “Hinkie shed his best players and built the Sixers to lose, and then lose some more.” For his first act, on the night of the 2013 Draft, he traded away the Sixers’ one All-Star, Jrue Holiday, for Nerlens Noel, a rookie center coming off an ACL injury, and a future draft pick. Not a popular way to start!
The trade was emblematic of Hinkie’s approach the next three years, which players and fans alike began calling “The Process.” The goal was excellence, not in the moment, or the next season, or even the one after that -- franchises don’t turn that quickly -- but at some point, when the probabilities overwhelmed luck. Good today was out; terrible today for the chance to be excellent in the future was in. 
That long-term thinking led Hinkie to do things that critics thought crazy and even wrong, including but not limited to:
Trading away good veterans to make the team worse in the short-term, increasing the probability of landing high draft picks that could turn into franchise-changing superstars.
Stockpiling tons of second-round picks, which Hinkie viewed as one of the most undervalued assets in the league, and maintaining cap space.
Signing injured players who wouldn’t be able to play for entire seasons. 
Drafting foreign players and stashing them overseas, where they would continue to develop for years before even potentially playing a game for the Sixers. 
The Sixers during The Process were terrible. They set a league record of 28 straight losses during the 2014-2015 season. They were even worse in 2015-2016, racking up just ten wins. But being terrible gave the Sixers hope. 
The NBA strives for parity, so the worst teams get more ping pong balls in the draft lottery, giving them a higher probability of picking first. The Cavs were terrible in 2002-2003, too, and that got them LeBron James. Hinkie was gunning for a similar outcome. The Sixers landed the #3 pick in 2014 and 2015 and the #1 pick in 2016 and 2017. They drafted Joel Embiid, Jahlil Okafor, Ben Simmons, and Markelle Fultz - two busts, and two superstars. 
Before Hinkie could see the fruits of his labor blossom, though, he was out. Sixers ownership, prodded by a league office fed up with the losing, pushed Hinkie out in April 2016. He was partially to blame; he didn’t even attempt to control his narrative, shying away from the media in order to keep his “light under a bushel” and his secrets away from competitors. But he was also right. 
After he left, something magical started happening. While the team botched the Okafor pick (under Hinkie) and traded up to pick Fultz (under Bryan Collangelo in a move that Hinkie never would have made), The Process landed them two cornerstone superstars in Embiid and Simmons. In 2017-18 and 2018-19, the Sixers made the Eastern Conference Semifinals, and were a Kawhi Leonard lucky bounce away from the Eastern Conference Finals. 
The Sixers win chart looks like a J-Curve, which occurs when a company spends upfront on something that will take a long time to pay off, but when it does pay off, it pays off really well. 
The Process worked. The Sixers haven’t won an NBA Championship (yet), but the probability of their winning one has been higher over the past few seasons than if they had kept fighting conventionally from a position of mediocrity. 
(If you want to go deeper on The Process, I got you. One of the first things I ever published online in May 2019 was The First Online Course on the Process [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOwyAM_Jpy24hnmxw49LK_ERFwElQCEZiNsl-_ND2sZGkkj-3xjDUIS8qn3lNBUgvk0TvN7rwXSg7EaelYr3riyzhngM34oDFXIHudgrcGfYrXBqVckVUzph6DeMyivzs7Cy6dmkCBfLhhnm0beeuMpjoP0YKGH8hnikCCXhH3chPPG_9udRxHtxv7OrfOpq01ppCWBntOFkr5sqnmAsRrTjlljHImFOeiY12oFaT8xbTeJN0W3pU6FWyn3odI1jHhlLKPS6Nfq9kgXETzMzbcavR4jhDNFMB9rOInnOtzPHfQEY4SABHyp3kl1gs50J40NZdaTPFf6A9Es3qp].)
Because sports are so public, and the outcomes so clear, The Process provides a clean case study in Worldbuilding. Let’s dive into its lessons. 
7 Lessons from Sam Hinkie’s Resignation Letter
On his way out, Hinkie wrote a letter to Sixers ownership explaining the thinking behind The Process. He included ideas from diverse influences, from physicist James Clerk Maxwell to investor Seth Klarman to evolutionary theorist Charles Darwin because, he wrote, “cross-pollinating ideas from other contexts is far, far better than attempting to solve our problems in basketball as if no one has ever faced anything similar.” 
The reverse is also true. Cross-pollinating ideas from Hinkie’s time in basketball is far, far better than attempting to solve all of our problems in business as if no one has ever faced anything similar. Fortunately, someone leaked Hinkie’s Resignation Letter.
Here are my seven favorite lessons from the letter and six quick hits from more recent interviews with Hinkie. 
1. Take the Longest View in the Room
Taking the longest view in the room means acquiring underpriced assets and building underappreciated capabilities today knowing that they’ll pay off far in the future, when it’s too late for everyone else to catch up. It’s the most important lesson, because the long view unlocks all of the other moves we’ll discuss. 
My favorite companies take the longest views. Amazon, Snap, Slack, Spotify, Stripe. In Stripe: The Internet’s Most Undervalued Company [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMtqxDAMRb9mvEvwK61n4cVs-hvBD2VixrGDLU9Jv75uBloKEgJdpCNdZxDuuRx6zxVJq1Dm4DV740pM8kq8lp6pSZFQ56UAbCZEjaUB2ZuNwRkMOZ0TlPKJrFo6w6mw4iqVVUy--0VRu4DiZhGGS09-OLNpPkByoOEJ5cgJSNQr4l4v4nbhHz1SRptLSPexNlvRuMfo8taFvWfFEnYYcIUhJISSAOuw9cVDSx7K08QGfgAnSNCccsoY5UxMnIuRjbE1kPIL83qRdLvzfwBS9C-5y4_VbBBPof8797q1FPCYIRkbwb-swJd552d47KATfNYI2C97NU9HlZBXqkin-dxtTH-gbzRahwc], I quoted Stripe CEO Patrick Collison, who said of Amazon’s Jeff Bezos:
There’s something quite deep about the notion of using time horizons as a competitive advantage, in that you’re simply willing to wait longer than other people and you have an organization that is thusly oriented.
Taking the longest view in the room shifts the field of play. As Hinkie wrote, “to take the long view has an unintuitive advantage built in—fewer competitors.” Everybody is trying to sign LeBron James today; very few teams are trying to build up the assets that might give them a chance to draft the next LeBron James in five years. Everyone wants to buy customers via Google and Facebook ads today; very few companies built proprietary growth channels five years ago that are paying off today. Less demand means that those assets are relatively underpriced. 
Hinkie also uses Bezos as his example of someone willing to take the long view, writing, “Jeff Bezos says that if Amazon has a good quarter it’s because of work they did 3, 4, 5 years ago—not because they did a good job that quarter.”
Taking the longest view in the room is also just mathematically advantageous. In his book, The Psychology of Money [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkLtuxCAQRb9m6WwBBpstKNKki5QivcVjYqNgsHjE8n59WG8RaTSjeVwdzTWqwBLTKfeYC6oZ0uysJCMVA2d3ZCWzRHCBXJ6_E8CmnJclVUB71d4ZVVwMlwJjytEqgQ8gtLBsHCkejdaTHqdJGGM4H5ky6MmZVbUOggEJv5DOGAB5uZay59vwdqPvLY7j6NWmHjH0Jm5t8JlPs0Yfl7P7aIKz-3IbeMi5e6YYcreqfXehNe3a7i1hwSdyn0ZBkJMUU0wIpmTglA496X2twNijxPXG8LbQPledizI_TyBKMsSiY3JhaeufVTXYtWh_z61uNbhyzhCU9mBflpSXideH5dxBBjiyh1IgvYaXs2JgdyxQo9nY7Az_oD9Biof6], Morgan Housel illustrates the power of time as clearly as I’ve ever seen. He points out that much of Warren Buffett’s success is due to the fact that he’s been compounding money since he was 10, and is still doing it at 90. If he had retired at 60, he’d be worth $11.9 million, not $84.5 billion that 30 extra years of compounding at 22% earned him. If RenTech’s Jim Simons had earned his 66% annual returns for as long as Buffett, he would be worth sixty-three quintillion nine hundred quadrillion seven hundred eighty-one trillion seven hundred eighty billion seven hundred forty-eight million one hundred sixty thousand dollars. Compounding, man. 
Worldbuilders take the longest view in the room. They know that to build enduring advantages, they have to accumulate small, non-obvious advantages over time that compound into an unimpeachable competitive position by the time that everyone else catches up. 
To read 6.6 more lessons from The Process, head over to the website:
Thanks as always to my brother Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUEGOwyAQe025NQJCsnDg0Mt-IyIwbVAIRDBslH390vSw0mhGsjW2bGsQXimfek8FSS2QJ-80G7nsB6GI08IxOUjiy_TMAJvxQWOuQPY6B28N-hSvD0r5QBatjLAWFJNU0RGe1FredEapDB2bqCBvn8lU5yFa0PAD-UwRSNAL4l5u_ePGv9scx9EFH1dwPnY2bQ3ysS1n4n2zNuXN2_WuRsXYF6OsMcRrTjlljHLWD5z3HetCrSDEL6blJuj24l2pc0Fj17ckyTomnFP28dXodTEbhIto2aZ2txo9nhNEMwdwn9j4KepKgecOOsJRAiBC_oBXe7IXikrS3FxqlcV_oz8DqHwI] for editing. What a guy.
It’s been a busy few weeks at Not Boring, and Substack has had some deliverability issues, so if you’re behind and you want to read anything but election coverage: 
SkillMagic: Not Boring Investment Memo [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVUMtuhDAM_JrNDRRCgHDIoZf-BsrDC9GGBCXOVvTrG4HUqpItS56xRzNGIawxnfKIGUnJkBZnZTcy0Q98JlZy24lBEJeXZwLYlfMSUwFyFO2dUehiuC4oZQPZpAbQyo6KP_U0TKJnsx7UYKbJzuP0NPWu6iyqWAfBgIQ3pDMGIF5uiEd-9B8P9lkrRNQxubC2ueiMyrxaE_cKHLXzy3m_q9WZpvKam9i48IaMOwRsuOiJk4wy2nWUdf3AWN92rS8FOP_GuD043Vf27zdJ8le0wq9N7eAvoFpd6txLcHguEJT2YO8U8M7tMoXnATLAV_aACOleXmGKns9UkKpmY00w_An9APSnhVE]
Software is Eating the Markets [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkM1qxSAQhZ8m7hKMMUUXLrrpawR_5iYSo0HHXtKnr82FloKDMIeZb86xGmFN-VJnKkhqgbx4p8Y3JqaZS-IUd6OYBfFleWSAQ_ugMFcgZzXBW40-xXuCUjaTTRlnnJDMweSkfRghuQBqrJQzpXzmjPxwFl2dh2hBwSfkK0UgQW2IZ-mm9459tBcTmpR9XIdSTUFt98Gmowlnq5Ie-NQZel96aCfEtccN-kPnHbAQrxhldBwpG6eZsWkYh1ArcP6Faes4PVb2byvJ6hfX5H3TB4RbaCaX9h81erwWiNoEcC__-ErstoPXCSrCswRAhPxq3jGKiUsqSKO51LKLf6BvXYaC1Q]
Pipe: Business-Funding Fit [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxVkMFuhSAQRb9GdhpA7MMFi276GwZkVPIQDAxt7NeXp0mbJkMmmQtzuHfWCGtMpzpiRlIypMlZxd647AcxEquEZXKQxOVpSQC7dl5hKkCOYrybNboYrheU8oFsagbJR2vMIPgDJDMWhHjQXo_LwkbKGHlxJl2sgzCDgk9IZwxAvNoQj9z07w3_qBUimphcWLtcTEY9P7s57lU4Xscd0JqSXYCc26UEWy-2i0PiFKe8Yihn_cB537HOl1L_8I1xawTdV_5vIUnql1Tl56Z38JdQ_U217yU4PCcI2niwt3W8w7qc4HmACvCVPSBCuodXgrIXI5Wk0myssYU_0A96xoC7]
Thanks for reading, vote, and see you on Thursday,
Packy