# TSMC Earnings, Geographic Flexibility, The 7nm Question (Stratechery Update 1-17-2022)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/TSMC Earnings, Geographic Flexibility, The 7nm Question (Stratechery Update 1-17-2022)_Tue,_17_Jan_2023_15-13-45_+0000_185c04b2f6727674.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:29.341991

---

TSMC's earnings, even when disappointing, show how strong the company's position is. Still, there are open questions about using leading edge capacity in the future.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/tsmc-earnings-geographic-flexibility-the-7nm-question/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvdHNtYy1lYXJuaW5ncy1nZW9ncmFwaGljLWZsZXhpYmlsaXR5LXRoZS03bm0tcXVlc3Rpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzY1NjA0MjUsImlhdCI6MTY3Mzk2ODQyNSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.s1FkXTLbVGcGFzhnIlrWqWwilpx8_mV7kqlqmdRLB4AhYTWa92qfqhcp-DB0Gw6Upzhw8LCnJ6DiG8DscpaKygkxiT7K3GykXnNpAQsJlv9jJOyhYcYK5soJOHOFr4Rr5Wm8RppeGKem0J8kjNfQu_aEK0u7VWT3n_DilpUQr6QfxHAJ6ynE8zZfMtQN1UQZn-EMvwq0a05b299wcfYSW8jmy8xh9zd6LA1E93NrfbTwnMASYl03qY7910Ox4lcFN36lUoPuzcqkNz5DhpE2iMryes9RydJrrHdrf5qIaxPTzMU-5OWzvg_TZjBbMg4ZasFn0fpHyM0MasnZI2aEqA )

( https://stratechery.com )

TSMC Earnings, Geographic Flexibility, The 7nm Question

( https://stratechery.com/2023/tsmc-earnings-geographic-flexibility-the-7nm-question/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvdHNtYy1lYXJuaW5ncy1nZW9ncmFwaGljLWZsZXhpYmlsaXR5LXRoZS03bm0tcXVlc3Rpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzY1NjA0MjUsImlhdCI6MTY3Mzk2ODQyNSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.s1FkXTLbVGcGFzhnIlrWqWwilpx8_mV7kqlqmdRLB4AhYTWa92qfqhcp-DB0Gw6Upzhw8LCnJ6DiG8DscpaKygkxiT7K3GykXnNpAQsJlv9jJOyhYcYK5soJOHOFr4Rr5Wm8RppeGKem0J8kjNfQu_aEK0u7VWT3n_DilpUQr6QfxHAJ6ynE8zZfMtQN1UQZn-EMvwq0a05b299wcfYSW8jmy8xh9zd6LA1E93NrfbTwnMASYl03qY7910Ox4lcFN36lUoPuzcqkNz5DhpE2iMryes9RydJrrHdrf5qIaxPTzMU-5OWzvg_TZjBbMg4ZasFn0fpHyM0MasnZI2aEqA ) Tuesday, January 17, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY )

Good morning,

In case you missed it because of the holiday, I did write a post yesterday about Twitter killing 3rd-party clients ( https://stratechery.com/2023/twitter-kills-third-party-clients-twitters-tortured-history-with-3rd-party-apps-the-twitter-files-business-model/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.isRWj48K-27U7bI5qrMBrBAzmvM8xZGu2zIt0RcslQSY-emNmqdAHkAVFbVYrfMwSTP-guT7a70D2LXq5TxM9dqQDQqDBlwDnmj8nGgF-BxtNdMWdlM-Ael6osFQZ9u3N8AC4hZEVxaUq3NZqaLb2HIJCpkA7UMlF1fSk5D0nZ0-ek4hCFIqcLazJUu5C1XSwJM6ePxrtRHiMnGblWq72OM_zLAHf-vWhF0-6n5ae3_eZG8UK3-RtcOso-nvGzmbrOkro-wgpRnENiYPHiWkyWI8RxzToahsr1-t3mdMYDYBMOir4p4DVGT0hTTTU5G09Jo_1Z1fuRDmV6P10Sk95A ). There is also a new episode of Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/whats-going-on-at-amazon-and-ai-language-barriers ) about Amazon’s recent slump.

I also thought this Twitter thread from @tim_walters ( https://twitter.com/tim_walters/status/1613180482262339584 ) disagreeing with some of my conclusions in last week’s post about Meta and the EU ( https://stratechery.com/2023/metas-eu-fine-first-party-versus-third-party-data-redux-the-eus-first-party-imposition/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjMvbWV0YXMtZXUtZmluZS1maXJzdC1wYXJ0eS12ZXJzdXMtdGhpcmQtcGFydHktZGF0YS1yZWR1eC10aGUtZXVzLWZpcnN0LXBhcnR5LWltcG9zaXRpb24vIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzY1NjA0MjUsImlhdCI6MTY3Mzk2ODQyNSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.jSsFDfOeW8xoO2ZGfaqSJCzc7cXMim_JyqSWqk2OC-VNjGuriWSS1hwGxrZRV9llBMW3-9p6hw2H6t_7QmOAl7Gw6TvEPOizPePHCSCi7hC1p5U4bcep8lYT2KzYR9kzI4f-L5bOaG9aokXA9vxLwTv49xwwuUvB2KUg1LrP7Gp9ILIzeqaHGzmHJ2hSNnu4IRFn0sZftbiVAdJqsRbzZQ0_9fO3cInq7WazrvCgHB9ylGDzOwArMUi0yG2a497zdRapN1kQU0onljiepjI7DqHf6sGwnaVQXJJ8yKSQcpg2cZHvQrSaBpPiNSQJSorwUUlA5VtG42O3uQ5XrXAD_Q ) was worth a read.

On to the Update:

TSMC Earnings
-------------

From Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-10/tsmc-quarterly-sales-trail-estimates-as-global-chip-demand-wanes ) :

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. recorded its first quarterly revenue miss in two years, signaling the global decline in electronics demand is starting to catch up with the chip giant. The shortfall suggests that even TSMC, with its technology and scale advantages, can’t escape a global slowdown in spending by consumers affected by rising interest rates and accelerating inflation. The world’s biggest contract manufacturer of chips last year reduced its capital spending plans by about 10% to $36 billion and some analysts have warned it may further delay expenditure on expansion in 2023.

These numbers, particularly this quarter’s forecast of a 2.7% revenue decline, were a tad worse than expected, but in the grand scheme of things — specifically, the way things usually go during semiconductor downturns — pretty good. The reason is because TSMC is actually taking share. First, CEO C.C. Wei said on the company’s earnings call ( https://seekingalpha.com/article/4569491-taiwan-semiconductor-manufacturing-company-limited-tsm-q4-2022-earnings-call-transcript ) that while semiconductor industry growth ex-memory grew 10% last year, the foundry industry increased 27%; that is basically a direct reference to the tumbling fortunes of Intel, by far the largest integrated device manufacturer (IDM). Moreover, TSMC is increasing its share within the foundry business: Wei forecast that in 2023 the semiconductor market ex-memory would decline 4%, the foundry industry would decline 3%, while TSMC itself would grow slightly.

This is an excellent example of it being good to be the king: first, TSMC is guaranteed business from companies that need to be on the bleeding edge, particularly smartphone providers and high-performance computing. Second, TSMC’s lead means that companies like AMD will continue to take share from Intel. Third, when and if TSMC capacity opens up, or decreases in price, customers for other foundries are happy to jump over to TSMC.

That noted, TSMC’s earnings also offered an excellent example of how foundry margins are closely tied to utilization rates: TSMC’s gross margins this quarter are set to fall 720 basis points primarily due to lower utilization. When most of the cost of a chip is set-in-stone depreciation costs spread across every chip produced, fewer chips produced mean plummeting margins. These numbers are still fine for TSMC; the more important takeaway is considering the implications of this math for a company like Intel that is rapidly losing share.

Geographic Flexibility
----------------------

The most interesting part of the call were the repeated references to “geographic flexibility” as a part of TSMC’s value proposition. Chairman Mark Liu said:

TSMC is a service business, not in just pure production. The service depends on the trust from the customers. So, in the past, our trust and service depends on our technology leadership, manufacturing excellence, the lowest cost, and quality. But recently, the geopolitical development is evolving just in front of us: 100% in one place cannot suffice our customers’ needs. Therefore, we started the overall global footprint planning.

Now of course, the cost will be higher. And I think our team has been focused on how do we do this at the same time, keep our minimum gross margin to be 53% and above. And that is the standard that we decide how the pace of our global expansion going to be, and there are other segments in terms of the space, of course. The global expansion increased the value to our customers and the new geopolitical environment. And therefore, the pricing, how the customer can shoulder the increased cost in terms of pricing. And of course, geopolitically, the semiconductors in the U.S. and Japan are all new.

So, I believe we are working hard on how to reduce the cost by building up the semiconductor supply ecosystem in U.S. and Japan. And I think indeed, both governments are helping – not just us, also rather other major companies to build a similar capacity in this place to reduce the costs. So, that is the general arrangement we are planning. There is no fixed rate. Of course, the government support will be another factor. And so that is, we are cautiously step-by-step to make sure our shareholders’ value still be kept.

First off, that bit about TSMC being a services business is a point I have noted before, particularly in the context of Intel’s attempt to build a foundry business. The challenge for the latter is not simply catching up to TSMC in terms of process, but also developing an entirely new competency that is completely foreign to Intel: customer service (as opposed to take-it-or-leave-it).

Secondly, this framing of TSMC’s geographic expansion certainly lines up with my read on TSMC’s Arizona announcement last month, at least in part. I wrote in a Daily Update ( https://stratechery.com/2022/tsmc-in-arizona-arizona-challenges-realities-and-motivations/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvdHNtYy1pbi1hcml6b25hLWFyaXpvbmEtY2hhbGxlbmdlcy1yZWFsaXRpZXMtYW5kLW1vdGl2YXRpb25zLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc2NTYwNDI1LCJpYXQiOjE2NzM5Njg0MjUsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.okVPDRhDsOL4xabYFSOfyCw7s1jbGCBLHNViq06gNIfFywBqTpwQHx0oJJ3gmU17ByiU4O-xSkuKPWIzYFuQgv3RfARkMcqnOAi62OXOteiGJ0woplG40YDQu6TY9hcrR5wwxhqDicYFyIXhBQeLGnC8Vdr8WhmIXWUKxIenUXaPOiHmLLjHLnZMBiWxn-SbFAfVvuQMBapnO5v4X5iqebAFxTmT0IWeGO5hkALCJff49yyR5I6vSOwHeqJGUo-GbiMln5j2Bcg3gi2bqAVZqid0Noegtvy0kbxOqtEXh7K53k8olMnWiGDWzsKkRf9smLu4Iv4py1Wr9rdNc6nWDQ ) :

What is interesting about this Arizona project is that I wouldn’t be surprised if it represents TSMC adopting a bit of the Intel playbook: Apple is TSMC’s largest customer, and Nvidia and AMD are almost certainly in the top 5. Moreover, their combined volume far exceeds what TSMC is building in Arizona, which may be a feature, not a bug: I suspect these Arizona foundries are being built specifically for those three companies, and while I doubt that TSMC is going to the same extremes as Intel’s Copy Exactly! ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copy_Exactly! ) approach, my assumption is that these fabs are going to be designed for mass production of a limited number of chips, not the flexibility that is at the core of the company’s Taiwan operations.

In other words, not only will these fabs be uncompetitive economically (although this strategy would be the best way to wring as much efficiencies as possible out of the project), and not only will they be much less of a hedge against Chinese invasion than you might think, but they will also likely not provide the flexible foundry capacity that is the biggest hole in the U.S.’s domestic capabilities (beyond the trailing edge capacity ( https://stratechery.com/2022/chips-and-china/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvY2hpcHMtYW5kLWNoaW5hLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc2NTYwNDI1LCJpYXQiOjE2NzM5Njg0MjUsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.YxZeqCAfI9G7hnEu4xkZ0UUwdWG9h2qf060cSo1RTRYCqPKCsxHJiek2VcVbGge-FuynWEiZZkuK7NjVo9TmqWSJB6m1Jpi-Wrur_UEFaoA6gzJivPBxNDQW8F7YLxJ742Q98otZgazozyW2OF3CWJX2YbkxEWbzjuo7M0g-9KaV6Bon8DM1Bccq8lxJlHSqWdamJirkSP1eZhJzk1cez_JS4Ud6DSaqReVkg5Yz5WHhZDE4iRWXSd4Tc0RrkO9QuaaUSZKLSYspjuP6qX8p1xswtWRSEJKX-3ViTHaO4qXOHZxnGTsMMCXDcunzNdYk7GmIrIIBgOwBi7nOslBqCw ) that is the U.S.’s biggest shortcoming, and which is uniquely well-suited to government subsidies that are unfortunately mostly going to the leading edge).

What is more important to the powers-that-be, though, is that President Biden gets to make a big speech about a big dollar figure and Tim Cook gets to talk about “Made in America” without having to discuss the company’s continued dependence on China. TSMC will have to bear the cost, but if that is the price of shoring up U.S. support for Taiwan, well, that is the best possible insurance policy the company could buy for its operations that truly matter, which are intrinsically tied to Taiwan.

I think this is mostly right: if Apple and Nvidia and AMD want to say they have chips Made in America, well, TSMC is a customer service organization, and they will give their customers what they want (even if construction costs in the U.S. are 5x the Taiwan cost, as TSMC relayed on the call). At the same time, Wei confirmed on the call that TSMC has no plans to build any packaging facilities in the U.S.: in other words, these U.S. chips will still have to be flown back to Taiwan to be packaged before they can be delivered to customers.

What I was wrong about was stating that TSMC will have to bear the cost; Wei stated on the call: “Our pricing will remain strategic to reflect our value, which also includes the value of geographic flexibility.” In other words, if geographic flexibility is important to you, TSMC will provide it, and charge accordingly.

The 7nm Question
----------------

In the excerpt above I referenced TSMC taking a page out of Intel’s playbook; what will be interesting is to what extent TSMC has to also follow Intel’s lead in terms of pricing generally.

TSMC was, for many years, behind the leading edge, so it had to price its chips relatively low from the get-go; it made up for this by keeping fabs in production years and years, churning out low-cost chips long past the point where the fab was fully depreciated. Intel, on the other hand, only kept fabs for the cutting edge (or at most a generation or two behind); they made this work by charging very high prices.

Of course that was then, and this is now; TSMC has long been moving more towards the Intel side of the equation in terms of its pricing for the leading edge, and the cost of “geographic flexibility” is only going to add to that trend. Still, at the same time, TSMC would certainly prefer to keep its old business model intact: it wants to keep the once-cutting edge fabs it built in use for many years to come.

This is where 7nm comes in. TSMC’s 7nm process was first introduced in 2018, and first shipped in volume as the manufacturing process undergirding the A12 processor in the iPhone XS; the A12 eventually shipped in not just the iPhone XS but also the XR, the 5th generation iPad Mini, the 3rd generation iPad Air, the 8th generation iPad, and the second generation Apple TV 4k. All of those products are now discontinued. Now Apple, to be fair, is the most committed to being on the cutting edge of anyone, but the trend is clear: consumer electronics even now can never have fast-enough and efficient-enough chips; most things shipping today are on some variation of 5nm, and all new Apple chips will be 3nm (Apple is still shipping an iPad and the Studio Display with the 7nm A13).

That leaves open the question as to who is going to use that 7nm capacity? Wei discussed this in his prepared remarks:

Next, let me talk about the N7-N6 demand outlook [ Note: N6 is, like N4 to N5, simply an evolution of the N7 process ]. Three months ago, we said our N7-N6 capacity utilization in first half ‘23 will not be as high as it has been in the past 3 years due to end market weakness in smartphone and PCs and customer’s product schedule delay. Since then, the end market demand for smartphone and PCs has further weakened and the capacity utilization of N7-N6 is lower than our expectation 3 months ago. We expect this to persist through first half of 2023 as our semiconductor supply chain inventory takes a few quarters to rebalance to a healthier level and we expect a mild pickup in our N7-N6 demand in second half 2013 than our prior expectation.

However, we continue to believe N7, N6 demand is more a cyclical issue rather than structural. We are working closely with our customers to develop specialty and differentiated technologies to drive additional wave of structural demand from consumer, RF, connectivity and other applications to backfill our N7, N6 capacity over the next several years. Thus, we are confident our 7-nanometer family will continue to be a large and long-lasting node for TSMC.

I think it is an open-question whether or not N7 demand will be back-filled by speciality applications, and I’m not the only one; credit to Charles Shi from Needham & Company for asking the exact question I would have:

*I want to ask about specialty technology. Obviously, you expect specialty technology to backfill your 7-nanometer fabs. I think this may be a more common knowledge inside the industry, but I recently spoke to some of your customers who are more on the analog mixed signal side. A lot of them are, I mean driving volumes more from 28-nanometer and above, and they could tell me that the benefit of going to 14-nanometer, 16-nanometer for 7-nanometer is there, but it’s not large as in the past, moving node-to-node. And at the same time, the cost is much higher, and I look at your technology roadmap, specialty technology roadmap, it does seems to me that the specialty technology platforms are not as broad at the 7-nanometer if I compare with the 28-nanometer and above. I just want to get some insights from you. How do you think about the progression of specialty technology going forward, as it seems to me that it’s kind of slowing down a little bit more slowing a little bit down faster for the analog mixed signal customers?*

This is the exact right question to ask: if 7nm is much more expensive, and the benefits much less for analog chips than cutting edge SoC chips, why is there an expectation that that capacity will be utilized going forward? This was Wei’s answer:

Charles, your observation is quite good. Actually, you are right. But then let me share with you a little bit more detail inside. Actually, you are right, for the analog portion or mixed signal portion, we do not need to really move into 7-nanometer or more ones now. But as time goes by, now is more and more computing functionality needed to be added into the product. Let me share with you that one thing like the WiFi, you need a really very high speed to move to the next generation and also the RF. For those kind of things, you need a very high-performance of the computing together with low-power consumption. It is important. And if you want to get the lower power consumption, the only the leading-edge node can give you that kind of opportunities, all the footprint stays the same. Then if you want to have a higher functionality with a lower power consumption, that’s where you have to move into the 7-nanometer or more end node even with the analog product.

This is right as far as it goes: 7nm is certainly more efficient than 28nm or 90nm or whatever node these chips are being made at; at the same time, when it comes to, say, a Wifi router, there is simply a lot more capacity for a relatively hot chip sucking power from an outlet than there is for a chip in a smartphone running on a battery, and the higher price for a more efficient node may not be worth it. It will be in some cases, for sure, but not all of them; the question of where that line will be drawn going forward is going to have a big impact on TSMC’s profitability in the long-run.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: December 8, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703