# Twitter's Link Ban, Network Portability, China and the Trailing Edge (Stratechery Update 12-19-2022)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Twitter's Link Ban, Network Portability, China and the Trailing Edge (Stratechery Update 12-19-2022)_Mon,_19_Dec_2022_12-09-39_+0000_1852a4a3b7ad3e30.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:22.391196

---

Twitter's link ban is not a new tactic to the company, or the industry, and shows where regulation goes wrong. Then, China doubles down on trailing edge semiconductor capacity.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2022/twitters-link-ban-network-portability-china-and-the-trailing-edge/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvdHdpdHRlcnMtbGluay1iYW4tbmV0d29yay1wb3J0YWJpbGl0eS1jaGluYS1hbmQtdGhlLXRyYWlsaW5nLWVkZ2UvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzQwNDM3NzQsImlhdCI6MTY3MTQ1MTc3NCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.wU-8Uy0hZZqFwwoFPWQJlnwEKgJQ6e5LFoGSXrxOHhMuSUxlTgbrnMLZ3-hWpGKSCHHqkywen0oLk21A9_GXnRkP-QCches1qFuBEInAO_RjzlO7GhqZatqS87td0bf5J-Ahwwnf-JuOxYm-88IVkG5zXnCJyQVpcQ8MnglkVctrG8ShfAVmQp3GAENK0epD0w307bNdXdbPDTvSZdR3pOQzcSyjg7kNlT5yjMl7prAo6oQS3zDNr4raXwhkjr6tlPE02tiOQ8-Z9sQaZ_TGciLQe0wAS-y8UrtDRY5_7qz59Far0DNEh6vJKGHgP-GauF5RG0rJ4Em_FkVBzbXYFA )

( https://stratechery.com )

Twitter's Link Ban, Network Portability, China and the Trailing Edge

( https://stratechery.com/2022/twitters-link-ban-network-portability-china-and-the-trailing-edge/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvdHdpdHRlcnMtbGluay1iYW4tbmV0d29yay1wb3J0YWJpbGl0eS1jaGluYS1hbmQtdGhlLXRyYWlsaW5nLWVkZ2UvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzQwNDM3NzQsImlhdCI6MTY3MTQ1MTc3NCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.wU-8Uy0hZZqFwwoFPWQJlnwEKgJQ6e5LFoGSXrxOHhMuSUxlTgbrnMLZ3-hWpGKSCHHqkywen0oLk21A9_GXnRkP-QCches1qFuBEInAO_RjzlO7GhqZatqS87td0bf5J-Ahwwnf-JuOxYm-88IVkG5zXnCJyQVpcQ8MnglkVctrG8ShfAVmQp3GAENK0epD0w307bNdXdbPDTvSZdR3pOQzcSyjg7kNlT5yjMl7prAo6oQS3zDNr4raXwhkjr6tlPE02tiOQ8-Z9sQaZ_TGciLQe0wAS-y8UrtDRY5_7qz59Far0DNEh6vJKGHgP-GauF5RG0rJ4Em_FkVBzbXYFA ) Monday, December 19, 2022

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY )

Good morning,

A few programming notes for the last week of publishing for the year:

* Stratechery (and Sharp Tech and Dithering) will be off for two weeks starting next week; I will return on Monday, January 9th.
* I have updated the Stratechery posting schedule ( https://stratechery.com/stratechery-plus/schedule/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LXBsdXMvc2NoZWR1bGUvIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzQwNDM3NzQsImlhdCI6MTY3MTQ1MTc3NCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.IT98JMxjuS3bcmFcrM9e8Gjo8BxvjiV1QZR2zfmDiWwnUGlb_S2LzKgipXxB8Rp2ThqhVbFJ7TBi8v5yd4Ahnfl50gyJoTfIhlh6464BFpQo31EixwhWvw9UHUAI_lab8zQhB-tzonUJ1mkbM2SobCfnMel3St0j0oetgjqoZbNMxcrSh3yyeM12nLEOaVK0zjXaWreaUOqIfCcFnagej0rh8jxOCQAFNYW9nahutZYwxvif4csoBImdURINo0aYeZijq7aKghHgjMknIDK9LVgKjoFDcC1mgXpg8UvDhkJ3Crmioi-_9uAgmjHfHEJR40dtsSDpJ9m2GU9CK_Nk5g ) for 2023; this is, of course, subject to change. The parameters of the schedule are unchanged from the past few years.
* This week I will publish one more Update (after today), the annual Year in Review ( https://stratechery.com/category/year-in-review/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tL2NhdGVnb3J5L3llYXItaW4tcmV2aWV3LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc0MDQzNzc0LCJpYXQiOjE2NzE0NTE3NzQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.sU4KHRxg6Z52_rMl0saqJ2l9rAMlCir0MwO9bsJJV4SkWCNs2ipUGbKEYa-zoCCmsBOEwXs4ZKb60ox_hw10cN_NNCQwjhfiOsYqi2XoW3KBxJEb_1bbNPbzYxOJBoJYIimjdGW564-txnKRotrHBdwhy-rvoUBJW35cOrfRg6ePt1u89hT6ulX5q-xHrfTZhbw93wkaNK_Er500Nwiw6qdF6U1F1O-_6jRMthqFXyfw6ZIN4nbTS1mrtbgwFbznJ0SXKV0tw0lbYiL7cgCNRsyw-6dq2rz_aqpRJzjh2Rsa6jmTb28jFWUA-CreV5oHqN5-AQ1c09TyIeVtrWa5CA ) , and one final Stratechery Interview.

In addition, Stratechery Plus gifts are available for the holiday. One-month, six-month, and one-year gifts are available, and you can choose when they are delivered. To send a gift (or gifts!), visit the gifts page ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/gift ).

On to the update:

Twitter’s Link Ban
------------------

It was another crazy weekend at Twitter; Elon Musk, as I write this, is running a poll ( https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1604617643973124097 ) asking if he should step down as head of Twitter, and that he promises to abide by the results. If Musk’s past polls are any indication there is a good chance he has already made the decision; for the record, I voted “Yes” (which just won 57.5% to 42.5%).

To that end, we spent an hour on Sharp Tech talking about everything that has gone down with Musk and Twitter over the past few weeks, from the Twitter Files to the media reaction to last week’s suspensions; the episode will come out later today and, given just how many threads there are to this story, I really think a podcast was the best way to articulate my thoughts on the matter. As always you can add Sharp Tech to your podcast player using the link at the bottom of this email; I’ll include a link to the episode in tomorrow’s email.

The one topic I did want to address in the Update is the since-rolled back ban on links to other social networks. From Bloomberg ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-12-18/twitter-will-remove-accounts-that-link-to-other-social-media ) :

Twitter said it will remove accounts “created solely” to promote other social media platforms. The company “will remove accounts created solely for the purpose of promoting other social platforms and content that contains links or usernames” for Facebook, Instagram, Mastodon, Truth Social, Tribel, Nostr and Post, Twitter Support said in a series of tweets Sunday.

The reaction to this move was probably the most unanimous condemnation of Musk yet, including prominent members of the tech industry; Paul Graham was amongst those condemning the change in a tweet ( https://twitter.com/paulg/status/1604556563338887168 ) , for which his account was promptly suspended.

Twitter can, of course, do what it wants: it is a private company. I recognize that is an unsatisfactory answer, but perhaps the degree to which it has always been unsatisfactory will now resonate more broadly. An extension of this argument is to point out that powers once cheered become feared when in the hands of those with whom you disagree, so it is worth weighing whether such powers ought ever be developed or sanctioned in the first place. Again, though, these are all better topics for a podcast, at least until we reach a resolution to this saga.

Network Portability
-------------------

What I do want to highlight is that while this particular implementation appeared to be a crude regex run against the text of tweets and bios, it’s not the first time that Twitter has acted to limit would-be competitors. From TechCrunch ( https://techcrunch.com/2012/07/26/no-api-for-you-twitter-shuts-off-find-friends-feature-for-instagram/ ) in 2012:

Instagram has just announced 80 million users and a new app update; Noticeably missing in the update? The “Find Your Friends” on Twitter feature, which allowed users to follow the same people they follow on Twitter on Instagram. The “Tweet Photo” feature is still available. We’ve learned that the feature is missing due to API restrictions from Twitter’s end, restrictions that possibly came about over concerns about Instagram’s scale and its strain on data pulls.

Those aren’t the reasons Twitter cut off Instagram’s API access; the real issue is that Instagram bootstrapped its social network on the back of Twitter. While the photo sharing service started as way to add filters to photos you shared to other social networks, the real prize was in building a network, and the easiest way to do that was to import your Twitter contacts. Unfortunately for Twitter 80 million people were already on board before the company acted, and Instagram didn’t really need Twitter anymore, soon zooming past the primarily text-based social network in active users.

The folks that Instagram’s API access were good for — beyond Instagram’s founders, investors, and eventually Facebook — were users who could replicate their social network on a new service. To that end, imagine if new Twitter rivals could rely on more than scraping the bios of people you follow to look for links to other social networks: what if Twitter’s API still included access to your friend graph? It would still be hard to build a Twitter competitor, but it would be a whole lot easier than it is currently; Twitter, though, along with every other social network, learned its lesson and shut down API access to your friend graph.

You might think that this would be an opportunity for government regulation, and, in theory, you would be right: if every social network had to make your friend graph API accessible it would be far more viable to build alternative social networks. From The Web’s Missing Interoperability ( https://stratechery.com/2021/the-webs-missing-interoperability/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjEvdGhlLXdlYnMtbWlzc2luZy1pbnRlcm9wZXJhYmlsaXR5LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc0MDQzNzc0LCJpYXQiOjE2NzE0NTE3NzQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.osBjXyd-9g_Cb89e-7Xkucl6TuA40S-MOW_ocYfdvSulqAIm57wHyBOfIZZ6GkzRnsyASo5S3egE1pNaA0itdk9shpJY6uiXwTBWDO1VpRvzpUsuO2T3da_JNLiIUVKQJ-gDaFuL88X5a09ctaRDuHRvabwvrYKD9eTFpKsQMW7i9-x0gprdVFdujByhz760hjLy8xUscqVxb8g204fb65mbTLqjv5_tWGKIjhiaZqRmxd4Lt4JSNbO_-V_W5lnwmnYTJFcSMLrqSk2e9BTdR_w8_EF9_aNGTkj4-fykvW1VbR0Ea8i5fGYF5OFvgFG8RgZc7ftVY_zwzZAIRLQMVA ) :

To that end, to the extent regulators want to engender competition in the social networking space, whether for political reasons or simply because they think Facebook is too powerful, the solution is clear: force existing social networks to open up their social graphs. Clubhouse shouldn’t have needed to upload your contacts, which aren’t even that great of a resource, filled as they are with your dentist from ten years ago at best and your abusive ex at worst; Facebook and Twitter (and Snapchat and all the rest) should have had to expose their social graphs to Clubhouse just like Twitter once did for Instagram. There is nothing else that would do more to spur competition…

The problem, though, is that government regulation, particularly in Europe, goes in the opposite direction; from a 2017 Update ( https://stratechery.com/2017/the-gdpr-and-facebook-and-google-intelligent-tracking-prevention-data-portability-and-social-graphs/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMTcvdGhlLWdkcHItYW5kLWZhY2Vib29rLWFuZC1nb29nbGUtaW50ZWxsaWdlbnQtdHJhY2tpbmctcHJldmVudGlvbi1kYXRhLXBvcnRhYmlsaXR5LWFuZC1zb2NpYWwtZ3JhcGhzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc0MDQzNzc0LCJpYXQiOjE2NzE0NTE3NzQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.ePKcbAxZptSArCox_owy1a7zvZaE4Yncju83Xeu_naoVRxUQMUhAac9AKSdeOoBepIN1smIFw2YlH7uWneOxPwVTxhAB8DJcu_Oij4qlNymTbnLUMGQklCViwWE-fYzIHCAMm5cnCx0yPYs9IKJjyOTzbg8FuB5bty03C8X3kOgPxe4R2h9bgVS9melH3L3Al54TFfDqBQy154qaQ77lTEsRnIRRwneM6HcnnFj3dwHOf2_LzQKm2zujKRqBrQnLirbaPNK9xFvPHvfXo9uBFbGqIRmbNZuvnqNrkcTYGyU8dcP7meaAvwOmDXzmR1XDawZ1QKO5l45-w3GJyn-Ytg ) :

Several folks have suggested that the GDPR’s requirements around data portability, including that it be machine accessible (i.e. not just a PDF) will help new networks form, but in fact the opposite is the case. Note this section from the Guidelines on the right to data portability ( https://iapp.org/media/pdf/resource_center/WP29-2017-04-data-portability-guidance.pdf ) :

Third condition: the right to data portability shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others

With respect to personal data concerning other data subjects:

The third condition is intended to avoid the retrieval and transmission of data containing the personal data of other (non-consenting) data subjects to a new data controller in cases where these data are likely to be processed in a way that would adversely affect the rights and freedoms of the other data subjects (Article 20(4) of the GDPR).

Such an adverse effect would occur, for instance, if the transmission of data from one data controller to another, would prevent third parties from exercising their rights as data subjects under the GDPR (such as the rights to information, access, etc.).

The data subject initiating the transmission of his or her data to another data controller, either gives consent to the new data controller for processing or enters into a contract with that controller. Where personal data of third parties are included in the data set another legal basis for the processing must be identified. For example, a legitimate interest may be pursued by the data controller under Article 6(1)(f), in particular when the purpose of the data controller is to provide a service to the data subject that allows the latter to process personal data for a purely personal or household activity. The processing operations initiated by the data subject in the context of personal activity that concern and potentially impact third parties remain under his or her responsibility, to the extent that such processing is not, in any manner, decided by the data controller…

Therefore, to prevent adverse effects on the third parties involved, the processing of such personal data by another controller is allowed only to the extent that the data are kept under the sole control of the requesting user and is only managed for purely personal or household needs. A receiving ‘new’ data controller (to whom the data can be transmitted at the request of the user) may not use the transmitted third party data for his own purposes e.g. to propose marketing products and services to those other third party data subjects. For example, this information should not be used to enrich the profile of the third party data subject and rebuild his social environment, without his knowledge and consent. Neither can it be used to retrieve information about such third parties and create specific profiles, even if their personal data are already held by the data controller. Otherwise, such processing is likely to be unlawful and unfair, especially if the third parties concerned are not informed and cannot exercise their rights as data subjects.

This forbids what I proposed: the easy re-creation of one’s social graph on other networks. Moreover, it’s an understandable regulation: my friend on Facebook didn’t give permission for their information to be given to Snapchat, for example. It does, though, make it that much more difficult to bootstrap a Facebook competitor: the most valuable data (from a business perspective, anyways) is the social graph, not the updates and pictures that must now be portable, which means that again, thanks to (reasonable!) regulation, Facebook’s position is that much more secure.

No one, from Twitter to Facebook, is scared about data portability; it’s telling, though, that Twitter, under pressure, felt the need to cut off links to other networks. Network portability is the single most important thing to spurring competition, and regulators are not only not encouraging it, they are actively banning it!

This privacy absolutism ties into the messaging app absurdity I wrote about last week ( https://stratechery.com/2022/the-app-store-and-the-digital-markets-act-third-party-app-stores-messaging-interoperability-madness/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvdGhlLWFwcC1zdG9yZS1hbmQtdGhlLWRpZ2l0YWwtbWFya2V0cy1hY3QtdGhpcmQtcGFydHktYXBwLXN0b3Jlcy1tZXNzYWdpbmctaW50ZXJvcGVyYWJpbGl0eS1tYWRuZXNzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc0MDQzNzc0LCJpYXQiOjE2NzE0NTE3NzQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.KAwKd3unearckiHAbxaDatKTfYruFeGR3VdZGo_c0W46PWSl0QdviW21ehGK68xmQSPzgjgrR3vUMY-B7WXNokg_WcXTTE3jiObmvCsPUIAFTZldoh10Zo-QHot_fsG9UArcgpIxwuV3_In9VY_atDYn3VHuIy_eSMup_Htg9Oa_JB4H8PFyDRSzJCw26NJJOVI8z6MvHJ0XBwrh-A1inQdad_TTWfD_Pi7XeKcQUyD2xT4J59NNQIR92g20ynBqlz6sXPJrdkSNb5IlSWuwV5Dg1B-Yn-NH5oah-xUGg89Z0oExb9Proc7S1-3xGRIDaxNQVauvUQ5Xw_dXFxQbtQ ) : the solution to competition for network-based apps like messaging services is making it trivial to port your network to another app; instead the E.U. is insisting on a nearly impossible-to-implement and inherently-less-secure interoperability requirement in the pursuit of an absolutist view of privacy that provides effectively no benefits to users (again, your email address is out there) instead of implementing the one requirement that would actually increase competition.

Two more points on Twitter’s link ban:

* First, as I wrote in 2020’s Social Networking 2.0 ( https://stratechery.com/2020/social-networking-2-0/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjAvc29jaWFsLW5ldHdvcmtpbmctMi0wLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc0MDQzNzc0LCJpYXQiOjE2NzE0NTE3NzQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.nDH4_Bv2Qs2DVMew9YSYqzqMmZ86Vp59dXI2GsQP7DFp1m12hBvT9u7P-f21v1PNlgLrkqv3dSA58KMoshaAodEnWrFdTBVM4ONyKfo3zSrtMeejl8VBSx_2-QAzNveTvjMslM5Ti9ZD5FzeBOFBi7vAIq1_wLdy5xCuerbCM3HG-X3FevZ3mGODOgc5J6KoeWUqEIYF-RMV0rIrhwbSdGirM41bQM6Yl3mVSS7ppN_Ht1mvU3TUItRE2xFnIwKAs3SAXivIXvfcb3A1F6EEuwuoeChkqiQdPu-6ZCMHINrZeBxgufcoinJPcTYKTr8qFFptzOMnoXv6VdSYfSu8-w ) , I strongly believe that the future of social networking (and the present for many) are private encrypted chats; in this world Twitter’s role is to help people find their private network (and, of course, to provide a battlefield to wage war against your enemies). I think this trend is a secular one no matter what Twitter tries to do to stop it (or accelerate it).
* Secondly, it’s worth noting that the prohibition that has everyone upset — Twitter banning links to alternatives — is the exact same prohibition that Apple has for the App Store. You can’t even link to your own website if that website has a payment option. Indeed, Apple’s anti-steering provision is worse: while Twitter can decide what happens on its own website, Apple has, by virtue of its platform control, vested in itself the power to decide what happens inside every app on the iPhone. It’s a terrible abuse of power, and it sure would be nice if the people mad at Twitter would spare some outrage for Apple.

Anyhow, that was more than I intended on Twitter, but still less than the podcast — check it out this afternoon.

China and the Trailing Edge
---------------------------

From Reuters ( https://www.reuters.com/technology/chinas-massive-older-chip-tech-build-up-raises-us-concern-2022-12-13/ ) :

China’s largest chip maker SMIC is ramping up production of a decade-old chip technology, key to many industries’ supply chains, setting off alarm bells in the United States and prompting some lawmakers to try to stop them. The United States and allied nations could further step up restrictions if China announces a trillion yuan ($144 billion) support package for its chip industry, as Reuters exclusively reported ( https://www.reuters.com/technology/china-plans-over-143-bln-push-boost-domestic-chips-compete-with-us-sources-2022-12-13/ ) on Tuesday, said TechInsights’ chip economist Dan Hutcheson…

With U.S. export controls making it impossible to produce advanced chips, SMIC is doubling down on mature technology chips and has announced four new facilities, or fabs, since 2020. When those come online, it would more than triple the company’s output, estimates Samuel Wang, Gartner chip analyst. He said there is a huge ramp up in new chip fabs across China. “All this will start to have an impact from early 2024 and will be full blown by 2027,” said Wang, adding the chip supply increase will put downward pressure on chip prices. The importance of older chip technology hit the industry in the face in 2021 as a shortage of those chips prevented manufacturing of millions of cars and consumer electronics.

This is both very smart of SMIC and China and a big problem for the U.S. for the reasons I laid out earlier this year in Chips and China ( https://stratechery.com/2022/chips-and-china/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkuY29tLzIwMjIvY2hpcHMtYW5kLWNoaW5hLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjc0MDQzNzc0LCJpYXQiOjE2NzE0NTE3NzQsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJmZWVkOnJlYWQgYXJ0aWNsZTpyZWFkIGFzc2V0OnJlYWQgY2F0ZWdvcnk6cmVhZCIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.uKIJXkK8_0SzQtqhAWnd467zlg5HMteqAc4GyBZGVlqvcV9Qv9Tfh02Xb4WKpBSlDl6jhjblBNnGSQ5nka9aR6VDWQmLPc-8Jxl5w0L2rgFrYWiu07o645nJRl0cBD9sCt2j2LnLXo8mmplJwJMx07EZhXw5uwEwooATJfFeeGuztA5n_OYd68mokNcfpUhoROyhOvBDX8iOTxDlRphT_IqIi5JI1uvHsM0C-NJvP6xeVTpZhiO2h2OjVZoT3cMyVNnSfPXuNCJQtlbZPuZG_LaVQ1LUN3Cvk5HTXxs1shngthi7cnQRUMAM_59gcpPME6FNR4dpODApY3OiRv73Bw ) :

Much of the discussion around a potential invasion of Taiwan — which would destroy TSMC (foundries don’t do well in wars) — centers around TSMC’s lead in high-end chips. That lead is real, but Intel, for all of its struggles, is only 3~5 years behind. That is a meaningful difference in terms of the processors used in smartphones, high performance computing, and AI, but the U.S. is still in the game. What would be much more difficult to replace are, paradoxically, trailing node chips, made in fabs that Intel long ago abandoned. China meanwhile, has had good reason to keep TSMC around, even as it built up its own trailing edge fabs: the country needs cutting edge chips, and TSMC makes them. However, if those chips are cut off, then what use is TSMC to China?

The U.S. has a massive strategic weakness when it comes to trailing edge chips: TSMC is the only alternative to China (beyond Global Foundries’ relatively small capacity), which means if TSMC goes away China has a stranglehold on the chips that are most used in daily life; that fast chip in your smartphone or PC doesn’t help you drive your car or operate your industrial robot or manage your appliances. To that end, it makes perfect sense for China to double down on the trailing edge: not only does this weaken TSMC (by driving down prices on its cash cow long-since-depreciated foundries), it also gives China leverage over the United States.

To that end, this is why I have argued that the CHIPS Act should have been focused on building trailing edge capacity: it’s relatively cheap, but there is no economic case for a private entity to build new-old fabs; the reason to build new ones is strategic, which is where government subsidies could help, but unfortunately no one is lobbying/threatening lawmakers like, say, an Intel, which already has all of the motivation it needs to build new cutting edge fabs with or without subsidies.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player: Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FJ9Yd9cfexTDyVnabvwxtLY )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: December 8, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/api/1.0.0/users/RseuYE8jgHePpWJf1fAb4C/channelOptOut?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJlbnQiOnsidXJpIjpbImh0dHBzOi8vc3RyYXRlY2hlcnkucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL2FwaS8xLjAuMC91c2Vycy9Sc2V1WUU4amdIZVBwV0pmMWZBYjRDL2NoYW5uZWxPcHRPdXQ_Y2hhbm5lbD1lbWFpbFx1MDAyNnJlZGlyZWN0X3VyaT1odHRwcyUzQSUyRiUyRnN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSUyRm1lbWJlciUyRnVuc3Vic2NyaWJlIl19LCJleHAiOjE2NzQwNDM3NzQsImlhdCI6MTY3MTQ1MTc3NCwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6Im1lbWJlcjp3cml0ZSIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.WqQT3mBf77JODqxxEpjmAS43CyaFO6mMEchObaVM7C8oGoIn3QyWYH_KlzU2hNumDRHZlxB_RBVNM9xcJIzYG_CG5QlIz1gXnPbFlswOcGhqJMYuv9YW49VdfYxCx7cF9kz9AaRoUdaO5qwoOq7UTY14nmvkHIXt1VNkNsClmXTggKUNrfmiGpQx2IiPi4-tCzyw2RdSLWA8mbhbY2QYuyg1_KGOKkbHPni-QdE-KV0Ad9XrNYJOgysxUPJE6zFc4dYOKjYbLolZk6KoU6EG0bGm8N8gJbRRIB5uHPKQBgXyFKgz1R-6P0goUr1uD5R_bNDsHnU4j86ZO7G0wztT5g&channel=email&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Fmember%2Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2022 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703