# Unity's Business Model Change, Unity's Strategy, Unity Leadership Questions (Stratechery Update 9-18-2023)

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Unity's Business Model Change, Unity's Strategy, Unity Leadership Questions (Stratechery Update 9-18-2023)_Mon,_18_Sep_2023_13-25-27_+0000_18aa877bcb1fe476.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-27T03:02:30.555235

---

Unity announced a sudden change to its business model. It makes some sense, but the implementation and communication were terrible, which is becoming a pattern.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2023/unitys-business-model-change-unitys-strategy-unity-leadership-questions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.cZPYNfMeFckzdLWciRwgtJfT8zmBKflpO5iAnuNFskzXDndmfkUQEnhML6a1MUPc0GAgNiI8nDtwY6LKNK71L9JVOdFWr_64N6kaz-EIVbfu_Kh5LuXjLpsL8Ngi6mifIwc5MWyESSzGJr5wE6RYvMWPlyBE_QLqsoXlcl6ZB7LVwJUHl3g5UqhtTOmK7JpJLw0kRLgJZPWpT37_uy1vtwgtito1sKpLXdXpFgpbAgbTHYQU5SAH7uLDfRHRq2AQwq7aXmIyKkVB9-jEsjOu4iU6moZXvh9gVAstIbn4bnVf0kKM0V7zrzbNiyzhrK9BILHADqDxIf1Gs8SdV_6gKg )

( https://stratechery.com )

Unity's Business Model Change, Unity's Strategy, Unity Leadership Questions

( https://stratechery.com/2023/unitys-business-model-change-unitys-strategy-unity-leadership-questions/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.cZPYNfMeFckzdLWciRwgtJfT8zmBKflpO5iAnuNFskzXDndmfkUQEnhML6a1MUPc0GAgNiI8nDtwY6LKNK71L9JVOdFWr_64N6kaz-EIVbfu_Kh5LuXjLpsL8Ngi6mifIwc5MWyESSzGJr5wE6RYvMWPlyBE_QLqsoXlcl6ZB7LVwJUHl3g5UqhtTOmK7JpJLw0kRLgJZPWpT37_uy1vtwgtito1sKpLXdXpFgpbAgbTHYQU5SAH7uLDfRHRq2AQwq7aXmIyKkVB9-jEsjOu4iU6moZXvh9gVAstIbn4bnVf0kKM0V7zrzbNiyzhrK9BILHADqDxIf1Gs8SdV_6gKg ) Monday, September 18, 2023

Listen to this Update in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Good morning,

Last Thursday’s Sharp Tech episode ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/is-the-i-phone-still-interesting-unitys-new-model-for-mobile-developers-you-tube-highlights-and-taylor-swifts-new-movie ) was about the iPhone announcement and another Unity blow-up. More on that below:

On to the Update:

Unity’s Business Model Change
-----------------------------

From The Verge ( https://www.theverge.com/2023/9/12/23870547/unit-price-change-game-development ) :

Popular video game engine Unity is making big changes to its pricing structure that’s causing confusion and anger among developers. On Tuesday, Unity announced that on January 1st, 2024, it would be implementing a pay-per-download pricing scheme that would charge developers a flat fee any time a game using Unity software is installed.

“We are introducing a Unity Runtime Fee that is based upon each time a qualifying game is downloaded by an end user,” the company shared on its blog. “We chose this because each time a game is downloaded, the Unity Runtime is also installed. Also we believe that an initial install-based fee allows creators to keep the ongoing financial gains from player engagement, unlike a revenue share.” Unity went on to explain in detail how this new program works, but here’s the gist: before a game is charged with these new fees, it must meet a specific revenue and download threshold that changes based on which tier of Unity subscription a developer pays for. These fees are further broken down depending on where a game is purchased, meaning that a game bought in the US, UK, and other “standard” markets is assessed a higher fee than when it’s bought in “emerging” markets like India or China.

These changes go into effect January 1st, 2024. Developers were concerned that they’d be hit with huge bills come that date, but Unity did make it clear that while it will take a game’s previous sales and downloads into account, it will only charge developers based on activity after that date.

There is a lot of context necessary to understand this announcement; briefly, the majority of games are developed using third-party “engines” that handle things like graphics, physics, sound, etc. This is very R&D intensive work, not just to build an engine in the first place, but to make sure it runs across everything from PCs to consoles to iOS to Android to newer devices like Quest and Vision Pro. It generally makes much more sense for a game studio to focus on the parts of the game that are differentiated — gameplay, assets, story, etc. — and to basically collectively employ one company to do the work that everyone needs done.

The two dominant engines in gaming today are Unity and Epic’s Unreal Engine. Unreal has its origins on the PC, and has traditionally been stronger on PC and consoles; Epic has developed Unreal in the context of its own games (the name comes from the game Unreal Tournament , which came out in 1999), and then made the engine available to other developers. Unreal’s business model is a revenue share: currently Epic takes 5% of revenue for any game that grosses more than $1 million; however, that fee is waived for games that are sold via Epic’s game store (because Epic makes money on the game sale itself).

Unity, on the other hand, was built from the beginning to be an engine for 3rd-party developers. It actually started on the Mac, which was a terrible decision until the iPhone came along, when Unity became the engine of choice for mobile game developers. Unity was, particularly back then, easier to use for new developers and better tuned to the limitations of mobile devices; it also had a very friendly business model: it was free to use until you made $100,000 in revenue, and after that you paid a seat license fee using a SaaS model.

This approach was certainly less lucrative than Epic’s approach on a game-by-game basis, but it had very real benefits that aligned Unity with the explosion in mobile gaming.

* First, there was an explosion in new game developers, which Unity was perfectly placed to capture thanks to the fact you could get started for free.
* Second, the explosion in new games presented logistical challenges in terms of collecting a revenue share: it’s one thing for Epic to sign a legal agreement and audit a AAA game studio; it’s another for Unity to get revenue information from a developer that may only make tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars.
* Third, mobile games monetized differently than PC or desktop games: instead of up-front purchases, mobile games relied on in-game purchases and advertising. Not only did this exacerbate the logistics issues, but it also incentivized producing lots of games with a ton of iteration; having a game engine that monetized based on your productive functions (i.e. developers) made a lot of sense.

This last piece was also Unity’s big opportunity for growth beyond their original SaaS business model: Unity offered in-app purchase monetization tools from which they took a cut, and built their own ad network. This last bit was particularly important for Unity’s long-term prospects. Unity listed their “Extensive Data Footprint and Sophisticated Analytics” as one of their competitive strengths in their 2020 S-1 ( https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1810806/000119312520227862/d908875ds1.htm ) :

Our scale affords us access to a vast amount of end-user engagement and platform performance data. We continuously capture and analyze valuable end-user behavior and application performance data from over 50 billion in-app events per day across over 20 different platforms as end-users interact with games and applications made with Unity. This data and analytics capability allows us to optimize content performance, end-user acquisition and engagement and monetization based on predicted lifetime values of our customers’ end-users, driving value for both our customers as well as their end-users.

This was a strategy that made a lot of sense: Unity provided its extremely valuable engine at an extremely low price, not just in terms of up-front cost but especially over the life of a game, which dramatically increased the number of developers using its engine; in exchange Unity built up a massive flywheel for collecting and monetizing end user data across all of those games that ran on its engine.

There was just one problem with this vision: six months before Unity’s IPO Apple had announced App Tracking Transparency, which disallowed exactly this type of data collection and usage from apps you didn’t own. Facebook, for example, could collect and use data from its apps, but it couldn’t collect user-linked data from non-Facebook apps, even if that data was collected by a Facebook-built and controlled SDK that reported back whether a Facebook ad converted or not. That limitation hurt even more for Unity, which operated completely under the surface.

Other ad networks, like AppLovin ( https://stratechery.com/2021/interoperability-defined-applovin-files-s-1-the-facebook-shopify-value-chain/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.GBNNsC8yIhA2Zz0eYYrOKfVf9Z1c8mUVMr5zLuKBi67gdgIE-pEDD3zMI82kAT0Zw3XICU_4ghY5h8YCH7Hf3fSkGefV1wZ7W2WchpvSVXIMBYTUYrgkksypCg_R5d9frBjaVWJ2ghF741l3ZjOLlWn1ZFe8h7-13GudsKMwzJ906qUEXXAHlYmkxiwttFMDgCxuhTDAHIpF9h92PZ1PhEqMGU40-QuGkJt9-MkoK06bxjCDqu8RNavxls10J0CRA1hCf7c6Yaaq5YF5PD83xwSdvXTWRQZyKXulSLrlBivqedAeCva_NKUE9oTy3NTSdtHI0Lcl_05SMbcMGQlytg ) , built-up their first party collection of apps and games; more importantly, though was that AppLovin shifted its focus from understanding users via user data to understanding users via advertiser bids. Eric Seufert explains the concept in Why Mediation is the Primary Front in the Mobile Advertising Wars Post-ATT ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/why-mediation-is-the-primary-front-in-the-mobile-advertising-wars-post-att/ ) :

Aggregation of supply provides pricing insights that are critical for efficiently managing demand in the post-ATT environment, in which user-level data cannot be gleaned and aggregated, either into user profiles or simple device graphs. If targeting can’t be accomplished and optimized by understanding how individual users behave after being exposed to ads, then ad platforms must acquire that awareness using the next best thing: advertiser bids…

Multiple advertisers’ bids are submitted for an available impression in a programmatic workflow, and those bids are entered into an auction, with the auction determining which advertiser’s ad is placed into the impression.

Mediation in app advertising ( https://mobiledevmemo.com/why-mediation-is-the-primary-front-in-the-mobile-advertising-wars-post-att/ )

It’s important to consider here what each of the participants in this process knows at the end of it. Each demand platform knows the bid it submitted on behalf of its advertising client, and it also knows whether that client won or lost the auction. The advertisers similarly know that information. But the SSP knows the submitted bid prices of each of the advertisers that entered the auction. At the end of the process — when the impression has been filled and the auction has been transacted — the SSP has gleaned much more information than the demand partners and advertisers, which essentially only now know whether their bid was competitive for inventory in that app (read: game).

Note that an advertiser’s bid for inventory is effectively an approximation of the LTV that the advertiser expects that prospective user to generate in its app, adjusted by various conversion filters (click rate, install rate, etc.). In essence, a bid is an LTV estimate. An SSP can interpret a bid as the pairwise expected value of a user in App A (the advertiser’s game) when acquired from App B (the publisher’s game). If SSPs have proxy data for user value, then they have access to something to which demand side partners have been starved through ATT, which is average user value.

Seufert wrote that post in July, 2022, after Unity announced it was acquiring IronSource ( https://stratechery.com/2022/unity-merges-with-ironsource-football-follow-up-uber-musk-follow-up/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.VXEUlTMH88AuJlrFpTiu9kNYWhj_0DdYM4r1atkG_h9xPXBL8uzonIdT5mS-gUJHaw5aJFDGe3G6bdPAR85Hd2l7A4by9K5E1N8SNu0AMRBmL10GBMOU0Ii6fi7U_91iFMszEFJR417B6-QyGmnmHHc6VXYyX6kltVXRo8WONZfyJdA97kNHGLu0tcxhZI2C4QdvJFjviXN_e1GmZWMC70Cv1u1XakmJcdhNlHwEMkMDf1YbuN4KBOMqvLCcTNl4rarJx8AnNa3gdZB8NiOVbAVN-z-OfvipitOn6rk2MjPPOuA1VmIh02tWZPUe0rFQ-ecH01ycYHwRV5pEDuUS2w ) ; Unity’s ad mediation product was late, and IronSource was the leading competitor to AppLovin. AppLovin tried to disrupt the deal ( https://stratechery.com/2022/applovin-offers-to-buy-unity-roblox-earnings-amazon-buys-irobot/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL2FwcGxvdmluLW9mZmVycy10by1idXktdW5pdHktcm9ibG94LWVhcm5pbmdzLWFtYXpvbi1idXlzLWlyb2JvdC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTY5NzYzNTUyNywiaWF0IjoxNjk1MDQzNTI3LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwaS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IlJzZXVZRThqZ0hlUHBXSmYxZkFiNEMiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.WG85CN551wZduLXdXtMDKRWAS_gU1qgXE7ugSTr1JAjNDA39VnHSNJ-xIp4jAzrcSkm7XDdRuA-TcyOvBBCfLXxzg0XYF2UK0QuKp2DJ0YCtWQhvTluEeTmTw31tZqIw2z60a5H2aYfgErJpaByc4vsM8ueSfHHNly-JY3mli530KlRaHKQZcV1u3gC43cDrEsyWJXSo7zQUxzNzx5xCZhYZUqQa6ixHXsP-GZu-KPD30TeIc1Lli3xL4-CS9XjJbAmB9nhFgzgDglIbaXy1a5j9MQ9iiM6UiL9u9fBXDOdSIPpUCikRWHevKJloVPmhzrGYGyGlnPwLqwTBhfvf7w ) , but it finally closed late last year, and IronSource’s platform was renamed LevelPlay.

Unity’s Strategy
----------------

That leads to the final piece of context that explains this move; from Mobilegamer.biz ( https://mobilegamer.biz/unity-is-offering-a-runtime-fee-waiver-if-you-switch-to-levelplay-as-it-tries-to-kill-applovin/ ) :

Unity is quietly offering developers a Runtime Fee waiver if they switch to its LevelPlay mediation platform, we’re told. “They just want to kill AppLovin”, said one developer. Studios currently using Unity’s LevelPlay mediation platform have already been offered a 100% Runtime Fee waiver, sources have told us. Unity account managers are also telling developers not using LevelPlay that if they switch over from main rival AppLovin or any other UA platform they can then unlock a Runtime Fee waiver of 80-100%.

This isn’t a shock; Unity’s blog post announcement ( https://blog.unity.com/news/plan-pricing-and-packaging-updates ) included this paragraph:

Qualifying customers may be eligible for credits toward the Unity Runtime Fee based on the adoption of Unity services beyond the Editor, such as Unity Gaming Services or Unity LevelPlay mediation for mobile ad-supported games.

In short, use Unity’s margin-driving services (Unity Gaming Services is Unity’s cloud service for developers), or pay for the Unity engine; simply paying a per-seat licensing fee, particularly in an environment with little growth and hiring freezes, would no longer be enough.

This isn’t, for the record, an absurd decision to make, particularly in the post-ATT era. This is the reality of Apple’s handicapping of ad-supported business models: the only possible response for impacted companies is to either consolidate their business into their own data siloes or start explicitly charging; Unity is doing both.

At the same time, this is a massive change for anyone who has built on Unity’s platforms: entire companies and business models were predicated on not having to pay Unity on an ongoing basis. Worse, while a share of revenue model like that employed by Unreal Engine would mean foregone revenue, Unity’s approach of charging for installs would mean guaranteed costs that preceded monetization. This flies directly in the face of Unity’s traditional value proposition, which is that you can experiment and iterate endlessly until you find a formula that works; now the very act of experimentation and iteration in public means risking huge fees (and that’s before you consider issues like piracy, install-bombing, etc.).

I suspect that the key factor driving Unity’s implementation was the aforementioned logistics issue: because Unity serves the long tail it doesn’t have or want to build the resources to sign a contract and audit every company that uses its engine like Epic does; a programmatic solution was necessary. At the same time, forcing every Unity game to only use the Unity ad network and in-app purchase capability, which would allow Unity to share in revenue upside programmatically, would be considered even more abusive than this pay-on-install model, which still lets you use the monetization service of your choice (the you-have-no-choice model is, of course, what Apple uses: the company’s argument is that forcing every app to use its in-app purchase is a matter of efficiently collecting its commission, which is true!).

Unfortunately for Unity, solipsism isn’t an excuse for a model that could result in taking >100% of developer revenue ( https://twitter.com/sosowski/status/1702700787116265536 ) , give rise to fraud and abuse, and which is effectively retroactive: four months warning for a business model change that won’t just impact new games but also existing ones is trust-obliterating. Worse, Unity previously promised it wouldn’t change the terms of service on developers ( https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2023/09/wait-is-unity-allowed-to-just-change-its-fee-structure-like-that/ ) ; that clause was quietly deleted earlier this year.

And yet, at the same time, no one is going to re-write a game on a new engine. Developers who have been using Unity for years will be loath to switch. And, while there is that slim possibility that developers actually lose money with this change, most games will still pay Unity less than they would have Epic with its 5% take rate. Maybe Unity will get away with it?

Unity Leadership Questions
--------------------------

Unity’s X account posted this on Sunday night:

Unity's post saying changes are coming ( https://twitter.com/unity/status/1703547752205218265 )

I doubt that Unity will go back on the policy change completely; fortunately, this change was so poorly executed that there are plenty of areas for improvement!

* Unity should push out the implementation date from this January to next January; developers need time to prepare for a fundamental business model change like this.
* Unity could offer developers the option of a per-install payment model or a share-of-revenue model like Epic; the latter could be significantly more expensive to facilitate the build-out of infrastructure to capture it.
* Unity could consider excluding current games from the model, particularly those that have not received updates for years, and perhaps never will. I do get that excluding all current games probably blows a big hole in the financial projections for this change, but even if these are the games that Unity has the most leverage over they are also the ones where Unity is destroying the most trust
* Unity could link the change in terms to actual updates in its software and games; let developers stay on older engines, but make clear those older engines won’t receive new features, OS updates, etc. The reality is that the OS update bit in particular will probably move everyone over sooner rather than later.

It is worth noting that developers would have raised a ruckus regardless of the manner in which Unity implemented a change like this; Unity is going to be taking more money out of their pockets going forward.

What should give Unity’s board pause, though, is just how shoddily this change was communicated. Again, Unity probably needed to do something like this in a post-ATT world, but the implementation was terrible. Worse, this is a pattern; last summer, after CEO John Riccitiello had to apologize to developers for calling them “fucking idiots” ( https://twitter.com/johnriccitiello/status/1548326529217679365 ) , I wrote in an Update ( https://stratechery.com/2022/more-on-unity-and-ironsource-developer-discontent-tactics-and-execution/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.I3UCdyF5jwk7y-N93t4i_ykQwlrIwACFTvgvGENO-AurQT9RneNooRGyFOYo8tySgBatEHsBuOpG-NepyuWxfIIZFhJEn8c3E8d1uZTR-d83d6RxdqA5SrEUxV75IeHsrYxWaB8GnejWVBw4pS2qw12MVrsRHKcAlIITLeIwF6qIpqgEj855vmi_ipW0O8fDSfRPTs7A5LUCvxyf0ZzO54HMvlLAk5-XU8fp7PbMUJ7YaeOVaMB_V8RkSFSUL9-4Yo-pFgGQoLzvAU_2AuURCxm06SBpzqyezhMNANbo6vALsoHkyVQJZkN6eDnsAYwlqVd1DCN1uUs7K-2XAkq4qA ) :

As I noted above, I think the ironSource acquisition makes sense today in July 2022; that raises a separate question, though: why is Unity in a position where it needs to acquire ironSource? The obvious answer is that Unity was late to build their own ad mediation product, and when they did build it, it wasn’t ready for prime time. That’s a failure of both tactics and execution. That happens, of course — building products is hard, and Unity’s ad network has been growing nicely for several years, perhaps leading the company to not see the need — but the company’s big earnings miss ( https://stratechery.com/2022/shopify-follow-up-shopify-audiences-unity-earnings/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDIyL3Nob3BpZnktZm9sbG93LXVwLXNob3BpZnktYXVkaWVuY2VzLXVuaXR5LWVhcm5pbmdzLyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNjk3NjM1NTI3LCJpYXQiOjE2OTUwNDM1MjcsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBpLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiUnNldVlFOGpnSGVQcFdKZjFmQWI0QyIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.EJGQyBvzAn8acndrEKlkkUxLCUuRbycS5zioZEakGj9qolxq0G7xencoeXbEETH5VBD-rWclpI9Y5FYrbDLs8CIjCHBpZexN8oAQabHinCpNigR9MsXOT3N34eZIQFz5RZjN1y-sCiNnVbZ19Au4GFqGLvR2VAqq4IiEnuyocjbVzRQg7hZK1cz3mz-llKiXVM_UiUN4hMH4poKxpSsT7IfECcmJ9KaEjnNGvyHG0DAfLO0R78dEeuKBot5pYS7W1i-IHU-fi_b-hYL3iiF2kxpQDb3VXINzEMV_1S2sariZNdbBQ_jMaAvYlG6kmDcuaXsNbP-e0u3M9J7AZx2oPw ) earlier this year was also blamed on a failure of tactics and execution…

I should also note that what has happened to Unity in 2022 does call into significant question the wisdom of the Weta Digital acquisition ( https://stratechery.com/2021/unity-buys-weta-digital-an-interview-with-unity-ceo-john-riccitiello/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.E4tGssyXWZM_9nIF5kv02UhyRDJTYQU0k2nkF2x9AqGIZBPl7PF1wli6ACyUBrEBe0qkyV4I4QZRPz-uR5yJK8iAvzIuIEy0rVkR25I0tPZ13UDGcmYt85AVHf-z2VDmOYVzVgzGhE315GKrRryzPFVQ6Un-guBAh9ZYbK3olG-0TaN6RgYzi9ax0-uZ24mmFu8hYaO0auFut_I7iDcLsE9w6eamxJr7ZpN-2HIpCFTe9WDFs65LZvEX_VfLXFGVwIYht24ezs-On6muNygwIFh0Yx8A2QrwNGuZ3IS_aF8Ph8DMDsqrVV4dm8BhJmXvI52eZX1DzSZjtX6yVwJCeQ ) ; when I interviewed Riccitiello at the time ( https://stratechery.com/2021/unity-buys-weta-digital-an-interview-with-unity-ceo-john-riccitiello/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.E4tGssyXWZM_9nIF5kv02UhyRDJTYQU0k2nkF2x9AqGIZBPl7PF1wli6ACyUBrEBe0qkyV4I4QZRPz-uR5yJK8iAvzIuIEy0rVkR25I0tPZ13UDGcmYt85AVHf-z2VDmOYVzVgzGhE315GKrRryzPFVQ6Un-guBAh9ZYbK3olG-0TaN6RgYzi9ax0-uZ24mmFu8hYaO0auFut_I7iDcLsE9w6eamxJr7ZpN-2HIpCFTe9WDFs65LZvEX_VfLXFGVwIYht24ezs-On6muNygwIFh0Yx8A2QrwNGuZ3IS_aF8Ph8DMDsqrVV4dm8BhJmXvI52eZX1DzSZjtX6yVwJCeQ ) I wondered if it would be a distraction from Unity’s core business. Riccitiello answered:

So just to make the first point that I wanted to make is that we’re investing for a ten and twenty years horizon, we don’t have to balance, like we’re just going to spend a little bit less on our existing customers in order to afford this, we’re not doing that. We’re investing for the best outcome for our customers and we’re not going to lose a dollar or a person against our core business, or our original core business, of supporting the game companies and for what it’s worth these tools are going to be a godsend to the game companies, so I’m not really worried about losing anything in the way of balance, I think there’s just more, as long as we execute really well.

Now, of course, companies like ours, or hopefully not ours, but others, you trip in your ambitions and then you find yourself having to make trade-offs, but right now as we see it this is something that allows us to invest more on both sides of the equation and consequently yield more for our customers whether they’re gaming customers or film customers, or vertical industries from architecture to auto.

Eight months on and Unity has admitted to major technical issues with their monetization platform, laid off hundreds of employees ( https://kotaku.com/sources-unity-laying-off-hundreds-of-staffers-1849125482 ) , and made another acquisition that again, makes sense, but only because Unity’s own product never fully made it to market (in part because of the aforementioned technical issues); that’s just the verifiable stuff — as I noted above, anecdotal chatter from developers about Unity’s core tools is not exactly positive.

That brings me to one final point: this is maybe a stupid thing to focus on, but it is striking that Riccitiello’s apology is full of spelling errors and bad punctuation; the sentiment is perhaps correct, but the execution shows a lack of attention to detail. It sure feels like an analogy for Unity: the high level strategy makes sense, but you have to get the details right; to put it another way, “investing for a ten and twenty year horizon” is all well-and-good, but you still have to get things right in the present if you ever want to reach the future.

Unity’s business model change makes sense, but you have to get the details right. Once again, they didn’t.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player:
Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.dithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD ) | GOAT ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2F6EynvegSpNaDpnt4DJsHzD )

Subscription Information

Member: Omar Zoheri
Email: stratecheryUSC@khamel.com
Member since: April 23, 2022
Auto-renewal is disabled
Expiration date: December 8, 2023

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://www.stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=stratecheryUSC%40khamel.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.

© 2023 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703