# Who Disrupts the Disrupters?

**Source**: inputs/saved_emails/Who Disrupts the Disrupters_Mon,_26_Apr_2021_13-00-54_+0000_1790e456f2f7f486.eml
**Type**: email
**Created**: 2025-08-25T02:54:03.532238

---

View this post on the web at https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuwyAQRb8m7GLx9GPBIpv-hoVhYqPYYMFQy39fEquthEDc0ejMHGsQ5phOvceM5H2NeO6gAxx5BURIpGRIo3eatbwXSg7EaelYr3ri8_hMAJvxq8ZUgOxlWr016GP4dFDKFVn01D2NBCYHoFL2VoB4gqSdFXRgrQR7cU1xHoIFDd-QzhiArHpB3PNNPG78q57jOJoQcYrJh7mxsUb7O17i3fmcyo75jgv8fiBl4jWnnFHJWyYoVbRhjVC0tYNig5uMY6w1nDnTSdV1MEEH7ibpNvMmlymjsa_K2UjSf9xafi1mg_VTqBuP9d1K8HiOEMy0grtk4OX0o2ecIUCqrt1osJpkg5ScVpmKXstXW0LVuI5JKtnF2hX-oT-gD47A

Welcome to the 602 newly Not Boring people who have joined us since last Monday! If you aren’t subscribed, join 45,460 smart, curious folks by subscribing here:
🎧  The podcast will be out later today - I just finished writing at the last minute! 
Today’s Not Boring is brought to you by… MarketerHire [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAQhZ8m3u3ib34uvGgpe1n6BmGis4ls1GC0Zd--ZlMoiMI5jOfwjYGMc0xPvcU9k-Ma83NDHfBnXzFnTKTsmEZnNWt5L5QciNXSsl71xO3jPSF6cKvOqSDZyrQ6A9nF8JqglCuyaMYnUJSaiRsjLDcA2In6xZ2JXtn2fuZCsQ6DQY3fmJ4xIFn1kvO2N-Kt4bd6PKQH1kqLS3g10R-quJXsxz2WZLARH1_gbMPbQ_NoXfFV-4z5PSYX5j_DgN_AzaFa8sLbC2fEaU45o5K3TFCq6JVdhaKtGRQb7ASWsRY4s9BJ1XU4YYe2kdTP_LqXac9gHkcfknSIeTqzJH0s4HF9GRXMWF9fgsvPEQNMK9qTWT7RvyiOMwZMdSV2hFyBs0FKTitzRU9GFapQVa41SU22sU6F_9Bf3Raasg]
Great marketing can be the difference between disrupting and being disrupted. 
Great marketers can get your product in front of the right customers, while inexperienced marketers can burn cash and slow you down. But how to find marketers that are right for your goals? 
MarketerHire [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAQhZ8m3u3ib34uvGgpe1n6BmGis4ls1GC0Zd--ZlMoiMI5jOfwjYGMc0xPvcU9k-Ma83NDHfBnXzFnTKTsmEZnNWt5L5QciNXSsl71xO3jPSF6cKvOqSDZyrQ6A9nF8JqglCuyaMYnUJSaiRsjLDcA2In6xZ2JXtn2fuZCsQ6DQY3fmJ4xIFn1kvO2N-Kt4bd6PKQH1kqLS3g10R-quJXsxz2WZLARH1_gbMPbQ_NoXfFV-4z5PSYX5j_DgN_AzaFa8sLbC2fEaU45o5K3TFCq6JVdhaKtGRQb7ASWsRY4s9BJ1XU4YYe2kdTP_LqXac9gHkcfknSIeTqzJH0s4HF9GRXMWF9fgsvPEQNMK9qTWT7RvyiOMwZMdSV2hFyBs0FKTitzRU9GFapQVa41SU22sU6F_9Bf3Raasg] matches your business with expert marketers perfectly suited for the task at hand. Brand, growth, email, and more, they have the right marketer for whatever you need. Even better? They do all the heavy lifting. 
No one knows how to hire marketers better than MarketerHire: tell them what you’re looking to accomplish, and they’ll match you with the one right marketer for you. Set up a call with MarketerHire [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkd1qxCAQhZ8m3u3ib34uvGgpe1n6BmGis4ls1GC0Zd--ZlMoiMI5jOfwjYGMc0xPvcU9k-Ma83NDHfBnXzFnTKTsmEZnNWt5L5QciNXSsl71xO3jPSF6cKvOqSDZyrQ6A9nF8JqglCuyaMYnUJSaiRsjLDcA2In6xZ2JXtn2fuZCsQ6DQY3fmJ4xIFn1kvO2N-Kt4bd6PKQH1kqLS3g10R-quJXsxz2WZLARH1_gbMPbQ_NoXfFV-4z5PSYX5j_DgN_AzaFa8sLbC2fEaU45o5K3TFCq6JVdhaKtGRQb7ASWsRY4s9BJ1XU4YYe2kdTP_LqXac9gHkcfknSIeTqzJH0s4HF9GRXMWF9fgsvPEQNMK9qTWT7RvyiOMwZMdSV2hFyBs0FKTitzRU9GFapQVa41SU22sU6F_9Bf3Raasg] today:
Hi friends 👋 ,
Happy Monday! 
The deeper into Web3 I go, the more out of my depth I feel. Each one of these posts makes me more nervous to send than the last — I’m certain that I’m getting things wrong, that I’m painting an incomplete picture of something I don’t yet fully grasp. But I have so many questions that I’m trying to figure out, and I figure I might as well do it in real-time, so we can all learn together.
One question I’ve been wrestling with is this: is Web3 a really fun side show, or does it actually pose a threat to today’s seemingly untouchable tech giants? Today, we’ll try to figure that out. It’s the beginning of the exploration, and certainly not the end. 
Before we get started, I want to take a second to call out how bad COVID has gotten in India, and point you to a place that I’m donating. If you’re interested in helping out, join me in donating to GiveIndia. 
Let’s get to it. 
Who Disrupts the Disrupters?
Disruption always looks obvious in hindsight. It’s hard to predict in real-time. 
If you owned a newspaper in 2000, you couldn’t have predicted that Facebook, Google, and Twitter would crush you. Ditto for cable and Netflix, music and Napster, retail and Amazon, and on and on. This is the “next big thing will start out looking like a toy” idea. Even when the eventual winner launches, it’s nowhere near obvious that it will change the face of its industry, or an adjacent one. 
As a thought exercise, imagine walking into a cable executive’s office in 1998, waving a red envelope in his face, and telling him he’s doomed. You would have gotten laughed right back out.
Now those companies -- the disrupters of the past 25 years -- are the large, powerful incumbents. They seem unstoppable. 
Tech companies make up most of my portfolio. It’s hard to imagine a world in which those companies aren’t much bigger and more dominant in a decade then they are today. Are newspapers going to win back our attention from Facebook and Twitter? Is the record industry going to suddenly get its swag back and challenge Spotify? Are you planning on shopping in a mall any time soon?
No chance. Because we’re not going back to the old way of doing things, it’s hard to imagine what could topple today’s biggest tech companies. But that doesn’t mean they’re disruption-proof, just that it’s hard to imagine who will disrupt them. Disrupters are never re-disrupted by the companies they disrupted in the first place, and anyone who has tried to directly compete, on their terms, has failed. 
But time marches forward. New disrupters enter the fray. Things that look like a toy become the next big thing. 
So what could disrupt the internet giants? Web3. 
I’ve become a little obsessed with Web3 recently. There is an endless amount to learn, and it changes daily. But it’s more than that. Web3 might represent the only threat to disrupt the world’s most powerful tech companies, the ones that make up most of my portfolio. 
That idea has been floating around in my head, but Chris Dixon [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAQRE8TlhZfOyxYzGaugfh0HBQbLGhPxrcfHC9GQqCm1V1VLziEudTDbKUhOS-LxwYmw7stgAiV7A2qTdGwkd-FkppEIyO7qztJzT4qwOrSYrDuQLbdLyk4TCV_JijlijyNkoKP0oUolQQumHowB1qLB4zK-agvXbfHBDmAgR-oR8lAFvNE3NpNfN34dz_4TqejIZS1VyGm35JJMpxyRiUfmaBU0YENQtExaMV09C4yNjrOopukmibwMEG8SbrOfGi7b-jC69xHqskFfakpz739eroVlk-jZ7L9Xfec8LCQnV8gXnHxovYBYGfIUDvNaB12VkxLyWnHpegVr_MQqn93m6Qrx9Kn8r_oH1iUg20]’s interview on Invest Like the Best [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkc1u7CAMhZ8m7GYEBPKzYHGlq75GZMBN6BCIwGmbty-dWVRCYPnInKPPDgjXXC5z5Ers91roOtAk_KoRibCws2JZgjdikFOv1cy8UV5MemKhLu8FcYcQDZUT2XHaGBxQyOk5wbnUbDOzHL0bRnAguZISQE2D9E5z7pVVQr984fQBk0ODn1iunJBFsxEdtev_dfKtnY8ckssx13rWu8t7a-ERavZYWynlpCY1D6304TunG214OzJhogDxlt9vNmb3cBuEpqHbUvtqvbr-jcB2_f-nWlkwkkvRcg6i51zzu7j3mg9u1mL2FrwQA0jhYVR6HNHiiL5TfF_lvZ62ErjHbzRWTMpkcwlpbfJjgx3jU2iMlvbuZwp0LZjARvQvfPTawhPosmLC0rbjF6DGXsxKSd7wa_7C1fj2urVbTNacfW5T6c_0B8sdnxk] a couple weeks ago snapped a few pieces into place. Web3 has the potential to be truly Disruptive, in the true, Clayton Christensen sense of the word. 
We’ll mix some classic strategy theory with some future tech to figure out if and why Web3 poses a real threat to Web2.0’s giants, covering: 
The End of the Beginning?
Big D Disruption
Revisiting the Computing Paradigm Assumption
Disrupting the Undisruptable
The State of Web3
Web2.0 Giants’ Web3 Comps     
Our journey starts with a debate over whether the big tech companies can be disrupted at all. 
The End of the Beginning? 
In the opening days of 2020, when COVID-19 was just a sparkle in a bat’s eye, Ben and Ben engaged in a light spar over whether Big Tech could be disrupted. 
On New Year’s Day, Benedict Evans [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOwyAMRb-mLCOeSbNgMZv5DcTDk6JJIAKnVf5-3GYxEjLClrn3nugRltpOu9eO7F0cnjvYAq--AiI0dnRoLicrRnlXRs8sWZ3E3dxZ7u6nAWw-rxbbAWw_wpqjx1zLZ4NzadjDTtJoo4OYIIxGeSXjbMIco04hJeX1peuPlKFEsPCEdtYCbLUPxL3f1NdNftPBV347GmLd6BWgQMoR4elLZ9lKLgXXchSKc8MHMSjDR1IScwo-CTF6KZKftJnIB0yQbppvixz6ETr6-Pv-ljVbKobacllo_PvwG6yfAUVzdG9HyXg6KD6skK7UeMH7cHALuWoENTmPhEzMWktO1Ay_UhIWZahNNhkpp0pb5V_0D5J9hmo] wrote How to Lose a Monopoly [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkUuOwyAMhk9TdomAQB4LFrOZa0QG3BZNgAhIq9x-3FajkZCfsn77w0HDWy6n2XNt7GXWdu5oEj7rhq1hYUfFsgZvxCjnQauFeaO8mPXMQl2vBTFC2EwrB7L9sFtw0EJO7wnOpWZ3I4Wf1XWwziqQyk7L6CjUFOIEQsuPLhw-YHJo8IHlzAnZZu6t7fUyfF3kN73n89lbTB0-INXe5Ug1ytEH1941yiWXnBwXfyYGV3LN19bFnPKet7OD5DufY0hAciwYmhFcyVEMnGvei37QfHSLFou34IUYgS6ASelpQloZ_UXxeJN9PWxt4H5eq7BiUm42l5Bu1P65Q8Tt3SAoK_l4pNDOFRPYDf2HV_tgfxNcb3RJoe_wKzSCLRalJCfemn_4ENBBU5nWZKRMB0BI_6K_wAOZFg]. The piece is about the fact that companies lose power over time whether or not regulators step in to break them up. He points to IBM losing power to Microsoft, and Microsoft losing power to the internet broadly, and suggests that the leading internet companies may not be as unbeatable as they seem: 
Today, it’s quite common to hear the assertion that our own dominant tech companies - Google, Facebook et al - will easily and naturally transfer their dominance to any new cycle that comes along. This wasn’t true for IBM or Microsoft, the two previous generations of tech dominance...
On January 7th, Ben Thompson [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8zLCP-ExYsuuk1EAQ3QZNABE5HuX2ZyaISMsLW4_l9s0dYSr3sURqSd3F4HWAzvNoGiFDJ2aC6FC3TfBJKGhKtjGxSE0nN_VSA3afNYj2BHGfY0uwxlfxRUMoVWbtS6CCC1MEIauio-ciDN1RpYIZO4fb1Z0yQZ7DwC_UqGchmV8SjPcTXg3_3g6_03miYy95fATKuZT9aySRZTjmjkmsmKFV0YINQVM9GMRODj4xpz1n0o1TjCAFGiA9J94UP7QwN_fx8f0qqzQVDqSkvffxc_Q7bZ9CDuX7vZ054Ocg-bBDvzHij-1BwC2SoHWl0HntsZqTktDNT9M7YoQjV231N0p1j6ar8b_oHUaqEoA] wrote The End of the Beginning [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOgzAMRb-m2RXlCWWRxWzmN1AeLkSFBCVmRvz9mHYxUhRHvrGvfYJDmEs97V4asuua8NzBZvhtKyBCZUeDOqVoRS8fyuiRRaujeJgHS216VoDNpdViPYDth19TcJhKfldwLg1brOzBaT8YNZjBCWOEfAY9OqWViUqK8ePrjpggB7DwA_UsGdhqF8S93dTXTX7TaVhp3LCQ3IWyUUZyySngAnfI8V6e9-vpYU45pzyTxJKlT4Jr2QvFueGd6JThfRiNGKN3UYjeSRHdoM0wgIcB4k3zbZZdO3xDF16XF6s2F_SlXl01fy1ug_Ut0M4Txe3ICc8JsvMrxA8O_FB9A5pmyHCNHyeHxFKMWktOOA3_rE-8lKE0jcnIORaqyv-mfyWfjK0]in response to Evans’ piece. Thompson argued that the current mobile and cloud leaders -- Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, and Google -- aren’t going anywhere. To him, they represent the logical endpoint of a shift from batch computing in one server room to continuous computing everywhere. 
If there’s nowhere to go past everywhere and always, he argues, there may not be a new generation of disrupters to replace today’s leaders:
The implication of this view should at this point be obvious, even if it feels a tad bit heretical: there may not be a significant paradigm shift on the horizon, nor the associated generational change that goes with it. And, to the extent there are evolutions, it really does seem like the incumbents have insurmountable advantages: the hyperscalers in the cloud are best placed to handle the torrent of data from the Internet of Things, while new I/O devices like augmented reality, wearables, or voice are natural extensions of the phone [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uxCAMhU8z7CbiNwkLFt30GpED7gQ1gQhIq9y-nmRRCdmSn8x7_jw0fOVyuj3Xxt5laueOLuFvXbE1LOyoWKYYnOjlqIy2LDgdxGhGFuv0VRA3iKtr5UC2H_MaPbSY07XBuTRscTyI2QjEXimDCJp729tgFPTWjyPa2xeOEDF5dPiD5cwJ2eqW1vb6UB8P-UmvtkJx_UJy5_NGE8mFpTYj-GVBCPUJKTzzXBv4FStJLDrJpeBa9kJxbngnOmV4760RNswQhOhBigCDNsOAMw4YHppvL9nV4_rn--3Fiku5zbnE9CL5e4EN10ugmyfq25FiOydMMK8YbhztpnoBml6Y8B0_TNCIpbBaS044Db_PJ17K0JhiMnIOmbbSv-kfbJqN2A].
Both Evans and Thompson wrote about the companies that dominate all of tech, but a similar logic can be applied across categories within tech. What comes after you can do anything you want to do online -- listen to a song, watch a movie, connect with all the people, trade stocks, get a ride -- anywhere, anytime? It’s not just FAAMG that are safe in this view, but Spotify, Netflix, Twitter, Snap, PayPal, and any other category-leading consumer software company. (Even though it’s not exactly technically right, I’ll call this whole group the Aggregators for simplicity.)
Without a new computing paradigm on the horizon, are the Aggregators now immune to disruption? 
Big D Disruption
Every startup claims to “disrupt” something. Check out the Google Trends for the word “disrupt." [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEFqxDAMRU8TL4Pt2Mlk4UWh9AKl6-BESsbUsVNbaTu3rzoDLQjpIyG-9BZPuOVyc0euJH7TRLcDXcKvGpEIizgrlimAU72-dNaMApwBdbEXEeq0FsTdh-ionCiOc45h8RRyum9Iqa24OmlWNYyr7EdtVqs1oPbzatceAEaP-uHrTwiYFnT4ieWWE4rorkRHbbqnRr9wUMEEtd1y3iK2S97_eizw-4i5YNO9AP_UdM8-xkb3G2bWb68sP1hAqOU8SASnpVbS6F51UlrZqrazsl9Gq0aYPSjVe63AD8YOA844IDRG7ptu6zlX8sv7r78oLmWacwlp4_H71e8Y7wMmMXHdzxToNmHyc0R4QKIH6zu2acOEhe-FyRMTVqMxWjJkKx9QmGJnuc1nCnaGzFvp3_QHZuaVYA] It’s been on a steady incline since Google started “disrupting” the internet in 2004. 
By the dictionary definition -- “drastically alter or destroy the structure of” -- many of the companies claiming to disrupt this industry or that are right. They’re coming in and doing things differently and changing their industry in some way. That’s little d disruption.
In business strategy parlance, though, Disruption has a more specific definition -- that’s Big D Disruption. In 1995, Harvard Business School professors Clayton Christensen and Joseph Bower coined the phrase “disruptive innovation” in a very 90’s-named HBR article titled Disruptive Technologies: Catching the Wave [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMGOhCAMhp9muGkAQeXAYS_7Ggaho2QVDNSZ-PbbHQ-bNC1p0_4_n3cISy6XPXJF9pcmvA6wCd51A0Qo7KxQphis6OXYaWVYsCqIUY8s1ulZAHYXN4vlBHac8xa9w5jTZ4NzqdlqO-lU772ZPYwB_NODB817-VS6G4wzt647Q4TkwcILypUTsM2uiEd9dF8P-U2xzqXNZaGXMEZT4YJSiLWcB8YXNAh-TXnLS4TakA-_xrQ0uELzdi9g0UouBVeyFx3nmrei7ciHN1qYMLsgRO-kCG5QehhghgHCQ_F9kW0954rO_7Q-76zYlHHOhW7T-Gd1O2yfAX1_orqfKeI1QXLzBuEmgzfgD6tpgQSFwIfJIWEVRinJiazmNwlC12lqk01GyiHTVvoX_QWr6ZKQ]. Since then, the term has been so misused that Christensen penned a follow-up piece for HBR in 2015 [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhDAMRb9mshuUJ5BFFt30N1AeHogKCUrMjPj7prCoZNmWLeteH28R5lxOs-eK5C9NeO5gEnzqCohQyFGhTDEY1vNRKKlJMDKwUY0k1ulVADYbV4PlALIfbo3eYszpuqCUK7IY2o-eu176lx5Hp_WonPBMCuVBu5fqb117hAjJg4E3lDMnIKtZEPf6EF8P_t1icaXLZW4dp0y1wnhLn8XiM9ZniLUcO8Y3PGNK-X3ZINFwyhmVvGeCUkU71glFe68V08HZwFhvOQt2kGoYwMEA4SHpNvOuHq6i9T-dzxspJmV0ucQ0t_XPYjdYr0V7eWp1O1LEc4Jk3QrhpoE31IvPNEOC0mCHyWJDybSUnDaait7fN1xCtXGzSZpyyO0q_Yv-Ajp-jRA] to set the record straight. I’ll quote his recap here wholesale, bolds mine: 
First, a quick recap of the idea: “Disruption” describes a process whereby a smaller company with fewer resources is able to successfully challenge established incumbent businesses. Specifically, as incumbents focus on improving their products and services for their most demanding (and usually most profitable) customers, they exceed the needs of some segments and ignore the needs of others. Entrants that prove disruptive begin by successfully targeting those overlooked segments, gaining a foothold by delivering more-suitable functionality—frequently at a lower price. Incumbents, chasing higher profitability in more-demanding segments, tend not to respond vigorously. Entrants then move upmarket, delivering the performance that incumbents’ mainstream customers require, while preserving the advantages that drove their early success. When mainstream customers start adopting the entrants’ offerings in volume, disruption has occurred.
Disruption is how little startups with modest resources compete against large incumbents with vaults full of cash: they find customers the incumbents ignore or overserve (and overcharge), build “good enough” products for them, and then expand into the mainstream as they improve their products. 
Today’s tech giants aren’t as easy to disrupt as Xerox or the newspapers, though. The people running Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Google, Spotify, Netflix, and the like have read Christensen. They haven’t done what incumbents have traditionally done: “improved their products and services for the most demanding (and usually most profitable) customers.” (Apple is an exception on the hardware side, although it’s been upmarket for a long-time and has yet to be disrupted.) They don’t ignore less profitable consumers because the internet, with high fixed costs and near-zero marginal costs, rewards companies for serving every consumer. 
The more consumers companies can spread their fixed costs over, the more profitable they become. Facebook is free, as are its subsidiaries, WhatsApp and Instagram. It monetizes through ads, with near-zero marginal cost to serve them. More eyeballs, more profit. It would cost nearly $100 million to individually purchase all of the songs that you can listen to on Spotify for $9.99 per month. Amazon famously views your margin as its opportunity.
In Beyond Disruption [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOxCAMRE_T7CYCAvksWPRmrhHxcSeoE4jAmVFuP05nMRKypTJWlZ-3CHMup9lzRXaVCc8dTILfugIiFHZUKFMMRnRyaLUaWTAqiEEPLNbpVQA2G1eD5QC2H26N3mLM6bPBudRsMeMg7KiEclzZTmgYQL6UB2-9AK51uH3tESIkDwZ-oJw5AVvNgrjXR_t8yG96FQvF9QuNG583UiQXmpoD-h--Qqzl2C930lg0kkvBlexEy7nmjWhazTs_ajEGZ4MQnZUi2F7pvgcHPYSH4tssm3q4ita_LxNWTMrocolppvF7sRusnwEdO1HfjhTxnCBZt0K4OeCN80NmmiHBlTtMFgmiGJWSnDhqft9NoFpNMsVk5BwybaV_0z-qNYuo], Thompson argues that when Christensen wrote Disruptive Technologies in 1995, it was the pinnacle of management theory (emphasis his), but that because of the nature of the internet, it no longer works:
Many of the most important new companies, including Google, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Snapchat, Uber, Airbnb and more are winning not by giving good-enough solutions to over-served low-end customers, but rather by delivering a superior experience that begins at the top of a market and works its way down until they have aggregated consumers [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUMuOhCAQ_JrhtgYQfBw4zGV_w_BolYyCgXY3_v32OIdNSHdSRaW6yluEJZfLHLkie48JrwNMgt-6ASIUdlYoUwxGdHJotRpZMCqIQQ8s1mkuALuNm8FyAjtOt0VvMeZ0KziXmq2kdDBLb1Xrxk5zN4vZhmEQfSt4p-jL7WvPECF5MPAD5coJ2GZWxKM-2udDftOrWOhcvxLd-LwTIrnQtOyyFFhu3y9cgfIQyKKRXAquZCdazjVvRNNq3vlRizE4G4TorBTB9kr3PTjoITwU3xfZ1NNVtP71dmHFpIwul5gWol-r3WG7CUo70d7PFPGaIFm3QfgUgZ8-72qmBRK8Dw-TRepCjEpJTkVq_glOTbWaYDqTkXPIpEr_pn_Sz4uY], giving them leverage over their suppliers and the potential to make outsized profits.
Internet giants can move upmarket and downmarket at the same cost, giving every consumer the same great experience, and amassing consumers who they can use to bend the will of suppliers. That’s the point of Thompson’s Aggregation Theory [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMtuhiAQhZ_mZ1fD1cuCRTd9DYMwv5IqGBjb-PYdddGEQHJOhjPn8w5hzuW0e67IrmvEcweb4LeugAiFHRXKGIMVreyV0QMLVgfRm57FOr4LwObiarEcwPZjWqN3GHO6JziXhi1Wcql7bmTXdb2aWh6UcT7ItwwGBqfck-uOECF5sPAD5cwJ2GoXxL2-1OdLftGpWGhdv5Dd-LyR4ua5wHwHfuACVIREFq9EwbVsheLc8EY0yvDWD0YMYXJBiNZJEVynTdfBBB2El-bbLJt6TBWd_76-Z8WmjFMuMc1kfy9ug_U2qOZI73akiOcIyU0rhIcAPiBvJuMMCa6Nw-iQ8IlBa8mJoOFPY0KkDMm0JqPkkGkq_Yf-AYWtigQ].
Use demand to get power over supply, thereby lowering costs and increasing profits. How does a new entrant compete with that? How do you low-end disrupt a company that provides an excellent experience at no cost to every consumer?  
Thompson might argue that you don’t. In two separate articles, five years apart, he made two separate arguments that suggest that today’s internet giants are undisruptable: 
You can’t low-end disrupt Aggregators because they serve every consumer segment well and cheaply. 
Even if a new computing interface comes along, the incumbents are still in the best position to take advantage. 
Maybe this really is the end of the beginning… 
But you know that’s not how I feel, because we’re less than 2,000 words in. This is just the beginning of the beginning. 
Today’s tech giants are more vulnerable than they look. They’re not going anywhere tomorrow. They’re probably very safe for the next five years. But over the next decade and beyond, one or more of today’s category-leading tech companies will be overtaken by a crypto-native competitor.
Revisiting the Computing Paradigm Assumption
To understand why, let’s start by revisiting that assumption that mobile/cloud is the last major computing paradigm. Chris Dixon kicked off his Invest Like the Best interview [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkcuO5CAMRb8m7KoEBPJYsBhp1L8R8XAldBGIwJnp_H27qxYtIbB8Za51rrcIa6mXOUpD9nMteB1gMvxvCRChsrNBXWIwYpBTr9XMglFBTHpisS2PCrDbmAzWE9hxuhS9xVjya4JzqdlmBj1I4Ir34JQfh_kxB6UeYJUDKz2f3772DBGyBwP_oF4lA0tmQzxa1__p5AedzxKzL6m0dra7Lzu14IitBGhUSjmpSc0DlSF-lXzDDW5HQcgYbbqVx82l4p9-s5E08Fumr9ar6z_Quq7_i9Xm5ms8kEUjuRRcyUH0nGt-F_de88HPWszB2SDEYKUIdlR6HMHBCKFTfF_lvZ2uofXPn_VYNbmgKzXmleTnZndIL4E4LfTuZ454LZCtSxDeCPGdxAvqskKGSgmFxSLxF7NSklMEmr-REeNeU5vWZOQcCk3lX9NvTxmhXg] with a dismissal of the Thompsonian view:
Sort of an obvious question if you're in technology or investing like I am is, "What's next?" One possibility is sort of it's the end of this cycle, it's a mature industry now. If you look at other industries, electricity and cars and other things, there was a period of rapid change and then at some point they stabilize. That's one hypothesis. I don't believe that, but that's one view you could have…
I believe, personally, that the most exciting new computing wave is blockchains and crypto.
Thompson’s confidence in the incumbents was based on the idea that even if new input/output (I/O) devices like wearables, voice, or AR replaces the phone, the incumbents are still in the best position to capture the opportunity. Facebook doesn’t care if you scroll the feed on your phone, AR glasses, or VR goggles -- it will serve you its feed, and the ads that support it, anywhere, anytime. It might even sell you the devices. The front-end is relatively meaningless; the incumbents are still best-positioned on the back-end. 
But Thompson missed Web3 in his list of potential threats, and Web3 changes some important things that the incumbents are not best-positioned to handle. 
To start, blockchains are not just a new I/O device. They aren’t devices at all. They represent a new paradigm.
Blockchains and crypto let you do things that previous computing paradigms couldn’t, the most important of which, according to Dixon, is that you can “write code that makes strong commitments about how it will behave in the future.” 
No one person or company can change the rules. There will only ever be 21 million bitcoin, no matter what anyone tries to do to change that. Strong commitments extend far beyond bitcoin, to Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), Decentralized Finance (DeFi), Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), and new blockchain-based products no one’s yet dreamed up. 
If the code can make strong commitments, you don’t need central platforms to make and enforce the rules. They just create economic drag. Instead, you can allow creators and consumers to share more of the profits that Aggregators and Platforms previously captured. 
Blockchains can make commitments to developers, too. Unlike Apple’s App Store, or Facebook, or Twitter, the rules are known from the start and they don’t change when a company decides it needs to increase profits. If you’re building a new app on top of the Ethereum or Solana [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEGOhCAQRU_TLA0gqCxYzGauYUqq2iaNYABn4u2H1sUkBFL8VP36z0GlNeXT7qlU9rnmeu5kI_2WQLVSZkehPHu0YpBTr5VhaBWKSU_Ml_mZiTbwwdZ8ENuPJXgH1ad4dXAuNXtZNxjOgS-TVnqUGuXTaHTKjDgigpxuXzjQU3Rk6YfymSKxYF-17uXRfz3kdzslBYjQubS1gnkruRRcyUH0nGveia7XfHBGC4MLoBADSIEwNtORFhoJH4pvq-zKsZQK7v2ZxLKNqS4p-7g2-f2CjcIltDBze7cj-nrOFGEJhHfOeuO6ks8rRcoNI85QGyRhlJK8cdL8ztVA9Lp9tzVZc8bUuuK_6R_7ZoAq] blockchains, you know what you’re getting. You can plug into a growing number of superpowers with confidence that they’ll always be there, even if the people behind them go away.
That changes everything. 
Disrupting the Undisruptable
Disruption comes in two forms. 
Low-End Disruption: Serving consumers who are overserved by incumbents, typically at a lower price point with a “good enough” product.
New-Market Disruption: Creating a market where none existed by turning non-consumers into consumers. 
Traditionally, disrupters observe the state of the market, identify overserved or unserved consumers, and jump in to steal demand the incumbents don’t want. Remember, though, that the Aggregators want all of the demand. They want to serve everyone well, at the lowest possible cost. They haven’t left an opening. 
Sometimes, though, a new technology creates an opening where none existed. 
In a 2016 HBR piece, What Would it Take to Disrupt a Platform Like Facebook? [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkU2OwyAMhU9TdomAQH4WLGYz14hMcBNUAhFxpurtx9MuRkK24enpWR8LEK6lvtxRThJ_ZabXgS7j80xIhFVcJ9Y5Bqd6PXbWTCI4E9RoRxHP-V4Rd4jJUb1QHJdPcQGKJb8dUmorNtcbtfhumAxfO6V7BJAmWAAVxj5M4ycXrhAxL-jwB-urZBTJbUTHeeu-bvqbz-ZrW-rKk5aq5yY7Ls8NqHmWK4UmUkPwwIZKE-JZr4MaaI4EdC91b1Jk6Q4L-lIeIjottZJG96qT0spWtZ2V_TJZNQUPQaketAowGDsM6HHAcDNyX3V7Xv4kWB7tUnZRXS7kS415ZfmxwY7pLTCLmft-5UivGTP4hOGDiT603-DmFTNW_oUwAzFjNRmjJWO28oOFOXaWn3lNwcmhsCv_h_4ChV6VnA], Joshua Gans wrote:
Supply-side disruption arises when a new innovation or technology offers a better way of providing consumer value than the old technology does...
Blockchains and crypto are the new technology that offers a better way of providing consumer value than the old technology does. It’s the computing shift that Thompson missed and Dixon picked up on. Blockchains aren’t a new I/O device, they’re a fundamentally new back-end on top of which “a smaller company with fewer resources” can build products that scale and evolve rapidly. 
Blockchains and the ecosystems on top of them allow entrepreneurs to build huge projects with very lean teams. It comes down to scalability and composability. 
My friend Jon Wu [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uwyAQhU8TlhZgwPaCRTe9BuJn4tDYYMHQyLcviReV0CBm9HjzPm8R1lxOfeSK5F0MngfoBK-6ASIU0ioUE4Nmis-jFAsJWgQ2y5nEau4FYLdx01gakKO5LXqLMaePglIuyUNPdxqcFIqqyYIN8-LvXT6PavZ0EcpevraFCMmDhl8oZ05ANv1APOpt_Lrx737wFd8bDT7v_fWT06sZEjWnnFHBFRsplXRgwyip8otkS3A2MKYsZ8FOQk4TOJgg3ATdVz7U5ipa_3z_R4pOGV0uMa19_HzYHbbPoGcy_d5bingaSNZtEK64eFH7ADArJCidZjAWOyu2CMFpxyXpFa_zGGVv9zVJdw65q9K_6R9QSYNe] pointed out that a lot of the work a normal startup would have to do gets handled by the blockchain itself, by other protocols, and by the community: 
The blockchain handles the rails - security, how the transactions settle, movement of money, etc… that removes the scaling headache for a young company. 
Projects like Metamask [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEtuxCAQRE8zLC1-7c-CRTa5htWYjgeNDRa0E_n2IeNFJARqSqXqegsyrblc7siVxd8183WQS_RTN2KmIs5KZY7BqV6PBuwkgrNBjTCKWOevQrRj3ByXk8Rx-i0uyDGnt0NKDeLpLIzSUHP0YLwnhDABfgGEPhgcQd-5eIZIaSFH31SunEhs7sl81If5eOjPdnZi3LG-upjbJKLTUitpda-MlCA71RmQ_TKBmoLHoFSPWgUcLAwDeRooPKzcV93V01fG5dUteRfFpcw-l5jWJr-euNP2Flqbub37mSJfMyX0G4W7KN-83tXnlRKVxjHMyI2SmqzVsoECeRdrJAy077amaMkhN1f6D_0FlXiAmw] remove the need for account creation - just connect your Metamask and you’re in, along with your money. 
You don’t need customer service because people understand that it’s self-custody, and if you send your crypto to the wrong place, that’s on you. There’s literally nothing a customer service team could do to fix that anyway.
Early users are also investors and community members, and do much of your marketing for you. 
Other projects built on the same protocol become “legos” that you can snap into place to add new functionality to your product.    
Simplifying it, he said, “You focus on your core value proposition, and the Ethereum chain takes care of everything else.” 
As a Web3 startup, you have scale from day 1, because you borrow the blockchain’s scale. As a result, Web3 companies can be like API-first companies [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkMuOhSAMQL_mstPw9LFgMZv5DQNSlQyCARzj30_nmswkFNI2zaFnNhXWlG99pFLJ7zXV-wAd4SoBaoVMzgJ58k6zjg9CyZE4LR0b1EB8mZYMsBsfdM0nkOO0wc-m-hTfE5RyRTa9uAG4W_hAFbhFzqJXox1FZy2zPSYP15zOQ5xBwzfkO0UgQW-1HuUlPl78E891XW1M1abs49rOCUsHhjl8aUwITd2guczduHRF4jWnnFHJOyYoVbRlrVC0m0fFRmeNY6wznDnTS9X3YKEH95J0X3lbTluqmb-QsJOs_4jY_trMDuHdwF0nfPcz-npPEI0N4B4N9bH5FjOtECGjZTeZig7ZKCWnqFHRZ230JBSW8ZsEyS7hVPyH_gDClov6] on steroids. They can focus on what they do best and outsource everything else to the chain, and to other protocols. Scalability and composability. 
That should be terrifying to the incumbents. Built-in scalability, composability among protocols, and programmable money are a formula that might allow Web3 projects to low-end disrupt the seemingly undisruptable.
To learn about Web3’s low-end and new market disruption, the state of Web3, and the Web2.0 Giants’ Web3 comps… 
Thanks to Jon [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE1uwyAQhU8TlhZgwPaCRTe9BuJn4tDYYMHQyLcviReV0CBm9HjzPm8R1lxOfeSK5F0MngfoBK-6ASIU0ioUE4Nmis-jFAsJWgQ2y5nEau4FYLdx01gakKO5LXqLMaePglIuyUNPdxqcFIqqyYIN8-LvXT6PavZ0EcpevraFCMmDhl8oZ05ANv1APOpt_Lrx737wFd8bDT7v_fWT06sZEjWnnFHBFRsplXRgwyip8otkS3A2MKYsZ8FOQk4TOJgg3ATdVz7U5ipa_3z_R4pOGV0uMa19_HzYHbbPoGcy_d5bingaSNZtEK64eFH7ADArJCidZjAWOyu2CMFpxyXpFa_zGGVv9zVJdw65q9K_6R9QSYNe] for the brilliant input and feedback, and to Dan [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkE2OhCAQhU_TLA0_IrpgMZu5himp0iatYLCcibcful1MQiBFpeq99wVgWnK5_J4PFu9r5Gsnn-j3WImZijgPKmNErzrdG9sOAn2Lqre9iMc4F6IN4uq5nCT2c1pjAI45fSak1FY8vQQHzgH1hGhmDDgTkZqNIeN0CHjrwomRUiBPP1SunEis_sm8Hw_z9dDf9fBvfDtqQt5qhbCFkMsWw0sZEb2WWslWd8pIaWWjGmNlFwarBpwAlepAKwTXWudoIkf4aOW26OY4p4MhvN5rRfEp85RLTEttv56w0fpp1GhjfbczRb5GSjCthHdqvuF9OIwLJSoVKo7AFZka2lbLSs3KO2XFYmz9rjZFVcZcp9K_6B-3b4dH] for editing. 
How did you like this week’s Not Boring? Your feedback helps me make this great.
Loved [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0EuKxCAQBuDTxGVQy0dcuBgY-hpBY3W3TKJBTQ-5_didxYAPsCj-8ltcw0cup91zbeR9zO3c0Sb8rSu2hoUcFcscg2WKTyCFIcGKwCY5kVjne0HcXFxtKweS_fBrXFyLOX06KOWSPK0SC3fBUA7Cy-CpWDT1U8CJIwvMT1euO0LEtKDFF5YzJySrfba21wG-Bn7rqx7lhWcd3xOt6PYx5v6qlVQS-qYwybs2wMFo1KCMEuCAAYAEAXSAWxngW5JoOeWMCq4YUCrpyEaQVC1GMhO8C4wpx1lwWkit0aPGMAi6PfhYD1-bW37GJW-k2JSbzyWmRy__PN2G66fQFeZ-b0eK7ZwxOb9iuIDa5fwhmx-YsHT_MLvWdZkRgtMOLOkF0gX7t5jpY5KeHHLvSv-hf3dpjuM] | Great [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0EuKxCAQBuDTxGVQy0dcuBgY-hrBxEpaJtGgpofcfuzOYsAHWBR_-c2u4pryZY9UKnkfY70OtBF_y4a1YiZnwTwGb5niA0hhiLfCs0EOJJRxyYi7C5ut-URynNMWZldDip8OSrkkTwsSlWDDpIWSODsPZpmVlwaoEoOE5c51pw8YZ7T4wnyliGSzz1qP0sFXxx9tlTO_8Cr9e6IN3dGH1F61kkpC2xQGuWgDHIxGDcooAQ4YAEgQQDt45A6-BQmWU86o4IoBpZL2rAdJ1WwkM35ynjHlOPNOC6k1TqjRd4LuK-_LOZXq5p9-TjvJNqY6pRzi2so_T7fj9ik0hbHd-xlDvUaMbtrQ30D1dv6QjStGzM3fj642XWaE4LQBS3qDNMH2LWbamKQl-9S64n_oH-1gjnQ] | Good [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkEuOwyAMhk8TlhFgHmHBYqRRrxERcFs0CURAOsrthzaLkfyQbNm__XnX8JHLafdcG3mHuZ072oS_dcXWsJCjYpljsEzxCaQwJFgR2CQnEut8L4ibi6tt5UCyH8savWsxp88EpVySp-XAnYFpoWoJDO7a-dAX-EmFu_Ocu0vXHSFi8mjxheXMCclqn63tdYCvgd-61aO88Kzj-6IV3T7G3KtaSSWhO4VJ3rUBDkajBmWUAAcMACQIoAPcygDfQKLllDMquGJAqaQjG0FS5Y1kJiwuMKYcZ8FpIbXGBTWGQdDtwcd6LLU5_zP6vJFiU25LLjE9evvn6TZcP41OYe55O1Js54zJLSuGC1C7OH-QzQ9MWDr_MLvW6TIjBKcdsKQXkE6wv8VMP5N05ZD7VPoX_QPsio9C] | Meh [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxF0EuKxCAQBuDTxGVQy0dcuBgY-hrBaKVbJtGgpofcfuzuxYAPsCj-8vOu4T2Xyx65NvI65nYdaBP-1g1bw0LOimWOwTLFJ5DCkGBFYJOcSKzzWhB3FzfbyonkOJctetdiTu8OSrkkD6vY5IReg6deghEqYEA_Mckn6kNY10-uO0PE5NHiE8uVE5LNPlo76gBfA7_1Vc_yxKuOr4k2dMcYc3_VSioJfVOY5KoNcDAaNSijBDhgACBBAB3gVgb45iRaTjmjgisGlEo6shEkVd5IZsLiAmPKcRacFlJrXFBjGATd73ys51Kb8z-jzzspNuW25BLTvZd_Hm7H7V3oCnO_9zPFds2Y3LJh-AC1j_ObbL5jwtL9w-xa12VGCE47sKQfkC7Yv8VMH5P05JB7V_oP_QMIw49X] | Bad [https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFkNuKxCAMhp-mXhY1HuqFFwvLvEaxNe3ItFrUztK3X2dmYSEHSAj_n292FdeUL3ukUsmrjPU60Eb8KRvWipmcBfMYvGWKDyCFId4KzwY5kFDGJSPuLmy25hPJcU5bmF0NKb4vKOWS3K0SZtBOaA4cJGXcT2xWE5phNh6XhX503ekDxhktPjFfKSLZ7L3Wo3Tw1fFbi3LmJ16lfzna0B19SG2qlVQSWlIY5KJNEzEaNSijBDhgACBBAO3gljv4ZiRYTjmjgisGlEras77ZUrORzPjJecaU48w7LaTWOKFG3wm6r7wv51Sqmx_9nHaSbUx1SjnEta0fd7fj9l40CmPr-xlDvUaMbtrQfwDVD-c3snHFiLnx96OrjS4zQnDaAMs_II1ge4uZZpM0ZZ_aVfwX_QUL3Y6V]
Thanks for reading, and see you on Thursday for more crypto,
Packy

Unsubscribe https://email.mg2.substack.com/c/eJxFUttuozAQ_Rp4RL5gAg88VOmmSxRSVU1omxdk7AlxuAabJeTr10mkXcmX0RnNnNE5I7iBshvmuO-0ce9PbuYe4hYmXYMxMLijhiFXMsYBCSnzI1fGvsQhC12l8-MA0HBVx2YYwe3HolaCG9W1jwqECHNPMaZywUIRRoGUx6AgC5CBiBA7ivDIGKdPXj5KBa2AGP7AMHctuHV8MqbXDn1xyMqeaZq8tjNFN6i29ERnIS7uZDaQSvOihvwxjUNXfScF18ahrw4JTFdBa0OY11iQbP4mdZWcu-v2nPjpbY_ePycl3qKbXEX9YZkEFiPprrI31UlTn-Qd2_1c33cfKD2_4O1yUvx7e7M9lPidqc3u15S-JjhRtg_N1B0_vNW3n6-1PmRRXXyt-mK5jjyTLv1PfBKXyxY2dbnfUzTvUMlWH_Ry1EV6zSZW0Gqjje-qmCCCkU8CTBFiyMMeZcgKx3AkCy4xDjjBki98tlhAAVZVx0dNSTw9FtpwUVmJGneI_0lm09WJN1A_Etas3P7N2Coz59De5ZNPH81zHR5a5iW0MNg1kTk3dglw5PsE2T1g6OmbNZoyC9sxXcssO1vV_if9C4tzzRA